two one and we're live hello Gabby hello
how are you Jeff
good thanks for being here I appreciate
it thank you for having me you're
looking well thank you you are as well
I really enjoy following you on
Instagram you have a very positive
Instagram page it's full of information
it's beneficial it's great stuff
Thanks yeah you know I I feel like I'm
trying to figure that out like for a
younger person it's like oh yeah well
this is how you do it and for me I'm
like what do you really want to say and
I don't know I think sometimes I I would
like to take more chances but I do play
it probably safe house up looking what
why I try to be pretty honest but
sometimes you're always very aware that
you just I'm not interested in getting
roasted or spending a lot of time and
energy in a hassle with somebody so I
think when I'm doing it I'm as honest as
I can be but I'm it's also I'm aware of
that
what do you hold back on like what kind
of stuff I think for me it would just
maybe just be more even maybe more
direct but you're you know I think when
you're trying when you sort of say okay
I'm gonna occupy this space
professionally that feels good to me and
like I want it to be overall pretty
positive you know like if you're selling
something like maybe I'd like to try to
sell something positive but hopefully
towards the honest a little bit right
and sometimes when you're doing that
you're also aware that like you're not
as harsh as sometimes your inner voice
is and so you go oh my not being it's
completely honest and transparent
because I don't really want to deal with
it and right so I'm just saying because
you don't want to deal with feedback
comments
yeah and it's and it's also just people
who are frustrated or or or also they're
not getting maybe the nuance or the
subtlety of what I'm trying to say let's
just say that social media is not the
place for subtlety no not in the
comments for sure right right so I just
I I want to do stuff that seems like
that seems often you know pretty real
but hopefully skewed towards like either
fun or something positive
one of things that I've recognized from
doing a podcast is that some of the
frustration when people do lash out yeah
and you're like this is like out of
proportion some of it is due to the fact
that it's very frustrating to just not
be a part of the conversation if you
disagree with like when you're listening
to just a fundamental the this the act
of listening to someone have a
conversation and something comes up be
like but what about that that's a great
point say that and it's like this you
get stuck yeah so then you leave it a
shitty comment yeah oh my god that guy's
a dick but this point his frustration of
not being able to communicate interject
it's like your kid who would be like hey
hey hey may never get to buy in yeah
that's a great point I think you've
probably been tempered by doing this and
have probably looked at it from a lot of
different points of view because you
have to yeah you have to I've tried
no it's it's been interesting to like
watch you over the years I think what's
interesting is watching you have an
interesting place where you keep your
own you sort of keep a level of
neutrality even though you have an
opinion so you let other people express
themselves whether it's about a religion
or vaccinations or whatever I think that
it's been interesting to see like you
develop that skill even more well it's
hard for people to express themselves as
it is like live on a podcast is
difficult it's harder still if you don't
allow them to if you interject and you
know as well as that we all know that
when someone when you have something
you're trying to say and then someone
talks over you it's fucking frustrating
and when you're trying to formulate
these words than someone butts in and
then you lose it it's hard so that's one
of the key skills of learning how to
communicate with people that I think a
lot of people lose is the ability to
listen you know and also you have to
have a good enough memory so you can
hold on to what you were going to say
and then allow this person to elaborate
on their thoughts and then when you give
them the respect and allow them to
elaborate on their thoughts
hopefully they'll return that favor and
they'll allow you to elaborate on your
thoughts and then you get a much more
balanced conversation but there's so
many people talking where they're just
talking over each other and shutting
each other down or taking the
conversation into a
a weird place it's just the only way to
find out how someone feels about
something is to let them express
themselves and if people get mad that I
don't push back it's like that's not
always the best way to find out how a
person feels you got to let them let
them talk right I want to know I want to
know the whole thing I want to know as
far into this as you can tell me why you
think this like instead of me just
saying no you're wrong I want to I want
you to explain it to me I want to know
whether or not I trust your process do
you bring that skill home with you yeah
I mean you're surrounded by women's
trough it's tough bro I'm serious like
sometimes because I even see it with my
own husband we have three daughters but
I mean especially you know when you have
a pretty masculine male I'm always
fascinated to watch them navigate their
home when they're surrounded by women I
just give up most of the time I lose
every argument I think you know I tried
to we communicate a lot love talking
with girls it's always those things
they're crying about like okay okay okay
we're gonna be fine
and you know I don't want them to be
like me I want them to be themselves and
I want them to be girls I wanted to be
able to be themselves I don't want them
to mirror my resilience you know I want
them to be vulnerable if they want to be
vulnerable but it's uh in terms of like
how I decorate the house or any I don't
have no say oh no nothing you know
that's why you have you know I have this
place I was gonna say you have your your
cave here Laird has a barn perfect and
he you know when he meets young guys
getting married he goes here I'm gonna
teach you okay you're right honey I'm
sorry
and oh yes whatever color you choose you
know always work some people it's never
enough but if you have the right
relationship sometimes it'll work that
way cuz I don't give a fuck what my
house looks like I really don't know I
have a good view where's the coffee yeah
okay good real work yeah okay how's the
bed that's a good bed do we have a TV
where's the TV is it a good one I also
get TV all right we're good we're good I
have a laptop okay we're good yeah yeah
I don't need that much now you know so
like when my wife's like gonna put this
okay put it there fantastic I want to
get that painting okay get the painting
I don't know I don't know why you want
to put it yeah put it where it feels
right I don't give a fuck it's I think
it's smart I I mean you know like
sometimes if I am fringe on if it's
functional then layered steps in like
you know that's not really functional
but otherwise he's like I'm tearing some
stuff out of my house right now and he
just gives me a look and I'm like I'm
this age if I want to do this support me
I need this laughs and walks out yeah he
does probably didn't care
go ahead just yes it's in the way
whatever it is whatever have fun with it
yeah is what time's dinner you know love
to decorate things I get nervous it's
really into it well yeah it's a nesting
trip yeah guys are like really into like
like design in in their own house like
really really into it like constantly
obsessing about where things are and
we're like homosexuals yeah what do you
mean is that a stereotypical thing that
is outrageous was that racist that might
be you might have showed your white
supremacy I'm not exactly sure yeah it's
a funny thing right but if I didn't have
this place though I don't know if I'm
like traditionally men had pool halls
they could hang out it or gyms that they
would hang out in and they would get
their dose of toxic masculinity yeah our
basement where a basement yeah you kind
of need a place where nobody's touching
your stuff oh yeah well if you live in a
house like I do with all girls too it's
it's just everything's girly I just did
whatever I'm fine
Laird says he's like I needed to be more
specific I said I wanted to be
surrounded by women I didn't mean be
related to all of them that's hilarious
you know it's I think it's nature God's
way of balancing off they say if guys
have elevated body temperature so
athletes people train a lot that they're
statistically have a greater chance of
having daughters because I think they
hot we call it hot balls basically if it
kills off the male sperm
that's hilarious and if you know I think
so they did a thing on a bunch of guys
either in the NFL or whatever and
statistically they just have a lot more
daughters huh
and I think it's like nature's way of
going oh you're gonna be all like moving
and active and rah and all this stuff
guess what just gonna put a bunch of
girls around for you or say things to my
husband I could never say as a wife mmm
you know it's like I see it and I just
go oh yeah well they know that for sure
he loves them so they carried away with
it they're in yeah they can't get fired
no I always say that to them my youngest
daughter when she was really little like
five or six she'd say okay so I'm not
really clear with this when I have alone
time I'm by myself and when you and Dad
need a long time like you're together
and I try to like well you know it's
important for moms and dads because you
know we have to work it I go you know
you're you're always gonna be dad's
daughter I you know I'm we're working at
being a husband and wife and then she'd
keep going with it and I finally would
just say like hey do you want to have
Christmas in separate houses and I'd see
her think for a second like well maybe
you know she's processing that she's
like I miss you but I don't know you
know so it's all that dance you know
know cuz daughters man they don't miss a
trick and they're on you and they're on
their dad like nobody's business well my
friends that have sons the way they say
it is it's like you take one of two
things either you have this wild animal
that's tearing things apart or you have
someone who's screaming and crying about
something you don't understand yeah take
your pick you know yeah a mental
destroyer or a physical destroyer
yeah walls with holes and Bochum broken
bones boys and girls it's like I have
learned so much being a mother two
daughters and I've been around women my
whole life you figure playing volleyball
being around tons of women it's very
different as a parent I mean I've
learned the most especially teenagers
watching them grow so strange it's such
a strange experience watching a person
figure out the world from from jump you
know like out the womb figure out the
world it's so educational I feel I don't
think everyone should have children I'm
not one of those zealots that tells
everybody hey you're not alive till you
have a kid no
it's unfair to say that defeat it is
unfair I think it's first of all a lot
of people can't write and maybe they
have a just a different path like I
always do my girlfriend's too like it's
unfair also to romanticize like to your
friends who either opted not to have
children or whatever met a partner too
late or didn't or whatever because I
think it is a really rich I mean there's
nothing like it I mean I love my
children but if I had one friend she was
like got married later and she was like
you know we're gonna adopt and she was
also doing a new business and I was like
listen I need to come I want to talk to
you and she also like to consider taking
naps occasionally I was like if you
think you're gonna adopt and like you're
gonna have a 12 year old that's like hey
I really appreciate you guys thank you
so much I go that's not what you know
like if you think you're gonna have a
kid and it's gonna make you happier
that's not what having a kid is I think
it makes you it makes you know yourself
better in a different way and you can
adapt and do something different but I
think when people sort of sell that bill
of goods like you gotta have kids it's
like well do you want to have kids you
know I think it's like you said not for
everyone
you definitely shouldn't adopt you think
it's gonna be easy that's what I mean I
get a romantic idea of like and I go you
know you don't first of all you don't
know what the what's where the kid is
coming from and then also you have a
roommate
I think every parent going into it has a
romantic idea I did and I'm a pretty
realistic person of like I'm gonna do
all these things right and it we're
gonna be you know running in sunflower
fields together and my kids are never
gonna think my music sucks or I can't
drive and then you realize I had a
friend tell me everyone gets their turn
in the barrel no matter what you do yeah
you got you have to navigate stuff
you're gonna have to deal with stuff
yeah and on the other hand it's awesome
when someone does a dot people if
they're really into it if they know what
they're getting into and those martyrs
out there and those people that are just
super kind and generous and love to
adopt children that god bless them yeah
so glad they were there yeah it's just I
agree with you that there are some
people that have a romanticized idea of
what it's like to raise a child and it's
unfair to to sell it like I love the mom
shucks
what so when you can have number two or
whatever to somebody it's like oh you
know that they're behind closed doors
doing you know like they just want
everyone to be in the psychotic nests
with them I have three kids you should
have three kids you know there are
people like that right
they did yeah there's people that have a
kid that immediately take this moral
high ground like yeah like they're doing
something they're an adult and you're
you're just a fool yeah you're like I
wonder who is the fool yes it's I ask
myself that sometimes well don't you
think you're a better person for raising
kids does it make you feel like you're
more in tune and nicer and just more
aware of what it is what it means to be
a human yeah I not only that I I feel
like I feel like it's it's a forced
exploration if you're trying to
participate like if you just lay down
the law and go hey in this house this is
how we do it then you're not doing
anything but I think if you you've
learned to adapt and also go wow I was
doing that wrong for like ten years
amazing you know like I've one of my
daughter's at 12 or 13 sort of revealed
some stuff about what she was unhappy
about about my parenting and I was like
god I've been doing that for a long time
so I think it's it's cool that she had
the confidence to do that though yeah
it's so cool I wanted to hear that like
when she was 30 at the Thanksgiving
table she moved out I was like what
you're supposed to reveal all that like
after you move out and then I go oh what
did I do that sorry what time's your
flight no I know listen it's a it's a
surrender I think for me it's been a
real surrender because I I just think I
you think you're in control of stuff and
you think I've got some discipline and
work ethic I just work my way through it
or power my way through it and then you
realize like no you have to surrender
and and also it's not just about solving
it quickly and yeah it is I'm I know
myself certainly better but also it
forces you
if you're willing to to really expand
yeah and it sunk it is uncomfortable
well I've been I've been really
fascinated by the life that you guys
live in Hawaii then it's because I've
always had this like idealized I'd like
one day like come but move to the big
island just chill on the side of a
mountain stop fucking around fly out to
do gigs but live out there where
everything's just more relaxed yeah you
know is it okay you know there's a lot
going on and like the Big Island is
obviously big city
yeah no it's big yeah it's sort of like
LA on the beach but you know there's a
couple things I think because it is a
primal environment like we live on
kawaii which is pretty heavy-duty as far
as um it's quiet there's not a lot of
distraction there's a really heavy-duty
nature and and so and I grew up in in
st. Thomas on the Virgin Island so I was
used to kind of being on an island but
you're you're with yourself a lot so if
you have things to do that are you know
productive then it's perfect
but what you have to always calibrate is
like the downtime or it like it's been
raining off and on for like over a year
on Hawaii whoa yeah so after a while
it'd be like Seattle in that way where
people it starts getting heavy but it's
sunny too right it can be and that's the
weirdest thing about the islands yeah
that there's different climates on this
I like the Big Island has desert yes it
has tropical rainforest it has a volcano
it's all the show every I think it has
every weather climate except Arctic I
believe at least Maui and the Big Island
have sort of every type of climate it's
crazy that just a little bit further
down it'll be different it'll be raining
constantly yeah exactly you just go the
other side and it's completely drying or
they have dwarf trees because they never
see the Sun but then they're you know
200 feet in the places that it's sunny
it's it's trippy and you could drive
around the whole thing and like how many
hours does it take you to drive around
the Big Island oh the Big Island I don't
know
like four hours or something I'm saying
I think so maybe a little more yeah you
like the big island love it
interesting I like Maui you do that's my
favorite every Islands different there
all their personalities are different
but I like it I mean we've been doing
this for over 23 years when I met Laird
he was big waves sort of come in winter
so when low pressures bring snow like to
the rest of the mainland that
low-pressure can also bring big waves
and then my season was summer so we sort
of went back and forth and that's a
really good blend because you you can
come to California and be like oh it's a
busy world I can see a lot of people I
can learn stuff I can do stuff and then
I also makes you appreciate when you go
back to Hawaii you're like clean air
really clean water very beautiful place
some of the ways the ideas about the way
they live there it's it's simple in a
good way I don't mean that in any way
like a derogatory it's like they're not
trying to they're not angling and trying
to get somewhere it's like no we're
living right but it can be also very a
really hard place a really hard place
how so well I think you know and you're
also talking about a warrior culture
right Polynesians so you have like this
this very intense love and you know when
they talk about the Aloha spirit
generosity they have like this and then
they're very powerful people as well and
sometimes if they're lit not living as
they're in their most natural way that
they were supposed to and then you
couple it with you know there's not a
ton of opportunities there it's hard to
live there it's far away it's expensive
and and sometimes you know it sounds
cliche but it's like we really do as
human organisms either need to be busy
so like okay working from sunup to
sundown for our food which is how it
used to be and then you're just so tired
you just go to bed and it's pretty
simple and let's just survive it or in
the world that we live in now it's like
how do we get people doing things that
are kind of productive and you think oh
I just switched sit on the beach and
look at the mountain and it's like yeah
after a while you get bored and if
you're a warrior you're either going to
you know do something with that that is
good for you or you might not so I think
there's there's a lot a lot of that
there I've learned a lot from that
culture but it I mean they're pretty
powerful they're powerful group and you
know it can go the other way pretty
quick where it's you know if there's
drugs and alcohol or you know beefing
and like it's all that so it's if that
was really disturbed when I found out
how much drug abuse there is on some of
the islands yeah crystal meth is
actually sad well it's it's again it
goes back to bored I'm like thinking
about when your kids have to stay home
for one day you know you know it's just
and now we have all these the internet
and all this stuff so now you want you
sort of think oh the rest of the world
has a perfect they're all busy and doing
fabulous perfect things and and it's
hard like you got to find people that
you're like let's do something let's go
I mean can you train alone every single
time no so you'd have to have a tribe of
people that are like let's go do this
activity and sometimes they don't it's
not that easy well so there's there's
you say there's 70,000 people on the
island on kawaii kawaii probably the
least inhabited
it's the oldest island so it has the
most erosion largest beaches and that's
where a layer grew up and it's so really
the nice the least inhabited of the
islands isn't it well yeah I mean I
don't it's not that I don't count it
yeah I mean of the bigger I'm right yeah
Molokai man you wouldn't you don't you
don't mess with Molokai no no that's
like that's like you but you got asked
permission to go hang out over there
really well kinda yeah it's cool though
cuz it's like if you know they were like
no you got a you can't you're out you
gotta go
really totally so is it great so it's
just the people that live there
you can't like move to Molokai yeah I
mean like you know iid better has a
place on Molokai
yep and it had for many many years but I
think he probably asked if that was
gonna be cool
yeah interesting yeah it's and it's
beautiful
do you have some friends I just went
hunting there yeah beautiful yeah
they're hunted access deer yeah on
Molokai yeah it's a beautiful place and
the people are amazing but you you it's
not like oh I'm just gonna buy a house
there right build a house there's no way
no way oh wow that's interesting all
these different islands have their own
like rules well Neil is you can't even
you can't go there you're not even
allowed to go no I didn't even know that
was an island yeah it's off of course
adnd hey ow Nikki ow yeah ow it's give
her that Jamie's big fan of me yeah yeah
no it's hot like they probably have you
know the largest percentage of pure of
Hawaiians there hmm
so it's cool I mean pretty that's gotta
be a great like I found that like
there's a big difference between the the
culture of say Maui versus the culture
of lanai lanai is more Island Dee to me
whereas Maui seems like a little bit
gentrified well also the wind because it
Maui so windy yes it brought all the
Europeans in the 80s cook to windsurf so
you're also have not only mainland us
and then Japanese culture you know 80s
now you're talking about Europeans from
wind and wind surfing so it has a lot
going on I think Maui it was almost like
a surprise how quick it developed and
they never had a chance to get on top of
it if that makes sense
it does make sense yeah it's so
populated it's also like so it's so La
it's so Beverly Hills I lived there for
13 years Jared yeah there was a wave
there that Laird was having a love
affair with for many years so we lived
there with you know so he could be close
to his girlfriend for so strange it know
every boy needs their girlfriend every
boy needs a wave they do well girl you
know just something that's what at least
I think is kind of natural is at least
for my experience is like I don't know
if you ever go through this when you go
home I'll little go out and surf for
many hours like he can go on for five
hours at a time and if their surf and it
comes home and I see how happy he is
like to see us like
loves us he's like oh my girls you know
and then about I don't know seven and a
half eight minutes in he he starts to
get this look on his face like oh yeah
I'm in the house like family you know I
wanted to do a book years ago called
death by domestication because it's like
how does how do how does he manage both
of those sides like I need to go I need
to be free I need to you know chase
things and like scare myself and do all
this stuff and then you know comes home
and it's like you know on the floor
laying you know with one of my daughters
and and being attentive and a great
husband and all these things but I
always get amused a little bit by the
push/pull yeah well especially I think
with the big wave surfer mindset a good
type of person those are like some of
the freest wildest humans on the planet
it's a very unusual group of people that
rides giant waves of water on the top of
the ocean I mean that's a that's a crazy
thing to dedicate your time to think
about it I tried not to think too much
about it cuz I did marry him but there's
some stuff I mean and weirdly you know
he's been doing this so long that you
realize hit he's actually even more
different than some of the other guys
because if you think about it he's
sustained doing this for right now forty
years so he's a guy who he has both so
what he wants to do is write a huge wave
during the day and then be with his
family at night and sometimes you know
it would take going you know halfway
around the globe or whatever and so I
think the pursuit and they have to wait
a lot that's the other thing these
things don't come around that often
right it's it's very interesting to live
with because there's a there's a little
bit of suffering that goes on and
sometimes Laird will say to me because
he's aware of time going by he'll be
like you know I have a lot more waves I
need to ride and I'm like I know like
it's a pretty deep calling and now that
I mean he's been filing for 25 years but
now that they are getting that equipment
better it's sort of like now we can ride
places that we couldn't
that we're not really attractive for
riding on top of the surface of the
water even if you towed it so now it's
opened up a whole other pursuit for him
yeah it's very nice as to why you would
go towards that like lair just put me on
a ski in front of a wave that's like 60
feet right and like being on the back of
a ski with him driving there's a moment
where you go okay I actually and I'm
sure you've experienced this with other
friends that take you maybe on flying or
something he is this is what he does
right so I'm like okay I trust him more
than I'm afraid that's fine I can do
that and I'm gonna surrender to that I'm
not gonna torture myself the whole time
I'm just gonna trust him
and you turn and there's a six story
building behind you moving and you just
think who would who like how is that fun
knowing how is seeing like I'm going to
actively ride that but now what the
foils because they're actually catching
the energy below the surface of the
water
what's up foils I'm not they have these
things called Hydra foils so originally
there's a guy named Mike Murphy who
created something called the air chair
and they were they've been putting foils
on like water skis and different funky
ways like even in the 50s so Laird and
his friends got an air tear and cut the
chair off and put us snowboard boots
bindings quick-release so you stand on
it you're booted in and below is this
basically a mini airplane with a strut
so for example yeah there's a shot of
one and this is a smaller one Jamie do
you have any ones have the big with the
boots I think this is what people are
using did you know what about this Wow
he knows about everything what are you
talking about he's plugged in his
plugged in look at him you have a
girlfriend
well what happened to this dude's head
oh yeah
so there's Laird on the left obviously
so you see how he there in the boots and
also he the reason he looks so puffy is
he has floatation underneath his wetsuit
so if you hit your head or what have you
but it's basically a miniature
airplane underneath the surface and if
he gets into trouble if they wiped out
they have a quick release but now
they've gotten this developed so that he
can do it without the boots because that
adds an element of danger that because
you're strapped in you're strapped in
and you're strut is you know four feet
long you know that's so strange looking
yeah but what's going on below the
surface so there's a miniature airplane
do you have Jamie do have any pictures
of it flipped up I'm sure if you look on
Laird stuff you can see the bottom it's
like a miniature airplane because water
is denser than air so it's sort of like
a miniature plane and it is like the
Oracle guys that do those boats do have
made foils for Laird it's yeah so those
are kind of more low performance ones
when you see the high performance they I
mean you know aerodynamics hydrodynamics
it's all of that so now what you're
doing is because there's energy below
the surface moving so we think of a wave
like pushing and dropping but there's
actually the energy circular energy
below so now you've got the foil that
can ride that but you're not you don't
have drag so like they can go there's a
wave on kawaiii where they're going over
you know 50 they go about 50 they can go
up get up to 52 miles an hour so imagine
if you did something well you've you
know dedicated yourself to martial arts
it's like but then there's like a new
way to do it and so he's been doing the
big stuff for 25 years but now they're
getting the equipment right that he can
ride ways that actually wouldn't be that
great but now they're super fun oh wow
so he gets it makes him excited and he
still pursues it and that's how that's
on Kauai right there and see how it's
not even breaking where he rides it yeah
so it no drug correct and it's it's
actually riding the energy below the
surface which you know for him he's just
interested in what's the most efficient
way I mean look at that you'd never
entered in regular surfing be able to
ride that
so it enables them so much fun you're
flying
that's incredible that's what it's the
difference right so they're flying so
that's I think keep kept him interested
but you know his his pursuit of this is
it's pretty it's pretty it's a pretty
interesting relationship to watch I
think it's important I mean as a female
for me I think playing volleyball help
me understand like having a pursuit you
know like something like you I got to go
do that and I think it's something about
living with a person who has a pursuit
other than like I need a bigger war
chest or whatever right that's can be
really cool is when when you're riding
that thing and there's the little
airplane under the water is there any
risk of something thinking that airplane
is a fish no animals are pretty smart oh
yeah I know I think I mean I know sharks
don't have great vision and I think
Laird is you know hit a home a turtle
you know not got anything but I like
Gray's did or something
but those animals are pretty smart right
but I was thinking the Sharks know
that's what I mean like maybe a Marlin
that thinks it's fish yes jacket I don't
think they want to have anything to do
with that thing though just the speed
and the shape and also a lot of those
animals don't want to get in that
turbulent it's still near a wave but you
know what maybe you never know and if I
hear of a story I will definitely call
you and tell you because I'll be like
Marlin came out but those guys are smart
all those animals Marlins are smart whoa
I mean they know usually I know sharks
again don't have great sight but they're
not like huh I think they understand
what's most times what's food obviously
shiny things and things like that but
but there are instances of people
getting hit by sharks right and Hawaii's
a big one isn't it it's worse as far as
like more in South Africa's really a lot
of sharks no Hawaii has there for sure
but nothing crazy
I there's a story that happened like
three weeks ago on Kauai in Hanalei Bay
this guy great surfer finishes his ride
jumps off his board and jumped onto a
shark oh Jesus Christ
and a shark like turned I guess and sort
of grunt he was a firefighter this guy
and like graze his leg and split and I
think it's just a reminder that sharks
ultimately really don't want to have
anything to do with you
I mean maybe hammerheads may be a little
more aggressive bull shark is the most
because I think right they have the most
amount of testosterone of any animal
mm-hmm they're the ones that can go to
freshwater - yeah the Bulls so they're
sort of more actively aggressive but I
mean I don't think a shark you're not
good eating I watch the television show
they took they found bull sharks way up
the Illinois River that'd be scary
whatever river it is in Illinois I know
what river it is but they found him deep
in freshwater yeah these sharks make
their way all the way from the ocean and
then Jamie do you think about the
testosterone I think of any animal they
have the largest amount of testosterone
or something like that they're mean
little fuckers yeah they're they're
responsible for that the actual news
incident that influenced the creation of
the movie Jaws oh really yeah it
happened in the river in New Jersey in
Jersey can imagine a river like a
freshwater river these people getting
murdered by sharks like yeah really yeah
know that yeah that's what it was based
on they didn't know that these fuckers
can swim way up into freshwater and they
just got a hold of people got a hold of
a few yeah because those buggers are a
little more aggressive yeah they're
supposed to be the most aggressive right
yeah yeah but I I think you know for me
with the sharks like even jaws impacted
me with that soundtrack and I was living
in in the Caribbean mmm and it's just
like I don't know my kids that whenever
my one daughter is like oh can I get
this movie on sharks I'm like no because
we live in Hawaii like I can't be
watching that stuff
yeah struck testosterone myth busted oh
it is Scientific American yeah oh it's
not real no oh yeah yeah it sounded good
though it did didn't it yeah much more
likely to I'm the bull shark yeah but a
tiger shark would sound even meaner
mm-hmm no bulls are meaner than tires
yeah they say bull and hammer are more
aggressive
Tiger oh yeah layered and my daughter
Reese just went do you know Mike molar
at all
photographer shoots sharks I know he is
okay he's he does amazing stuff but they
go and they dive so he took Reese and
Laird they went for like four days and
they go in the cage with the great
whites out at the Galapagos and they
said it's pretty far out you should do
that sometime
fuck that come on it with a shark gets
mad fucks up the cage but people are
probably doing stupid things maybe no no
I just you'll do things like we're guys
hit each other in the head but you won't
go sit in a cage that seems normal to me
they say that once you see them under
that you have a different feeling
they'll like you're not it's not that
you're not as scared but you you just
see them a little differently not just
like a predator right
Laird says you can see the people their
eye and everything did you hear that
Canada has their banning whale and
dolphin captivity I think it's great I
think it's great too
they apparently just passed I mean how
about blackfish one documentary and it
like kind of I think initiated a
movement oh for sure yeah
people didn't know they needed to just
see it in a digestible form instead of
having to go seek it out and read
articles about it and news reports
instead of that they get to see it there
it is and a very digestible for me
though oh my god this is chaos this is
horrible
is it a transit atrocity you're taking
these incredible animals that are
probably some of the most magnificent
creatures that evolution has ever
created and you're putting them in a
fish tank you're putting them in a
swimming pool
yeah there's their fins gorilla yeah
that's crazy
well actually if you think about the
killer whale I mean that's the king yeah
just a crazy video that I just watched
yesterday of one killing a beach seal it
injured the seal and the seal tried to
make it over into and it literally
beached itself smash this seal and those
just blood everywhere and these bunch of
people are standing around watching it
going holy shit yeah and then it flopped
its way back into the water and swam off
it didn't eat it yeah okay go well
that's what I mean listen that's the
thing about nature right it's it's it's
kind of brutal but it's not personal
to see the you know those whales not
like you know that seal gave me kind of
a funny look right I'm gonna go and give
it to him it's like oh there's some food
did you ever see the one when they're on
the iceberg and they look oh that bugger
still holding on and then push it again
and there was a mother teaching its
calves at a hunt to mark that she was
setting it up but showing like you can
make him slide like watch this well
slide well I was listening to my friend
Stephen Ellis podcast and he was talking
about the difference in the orcas in the
Puget Sound and that their local orcas
which are essentially salmon specialists
yeah
and they don't eat animals they don't
eat marine mammals but then there are
other ones that travel into the area and
they are marine mammal specialists so
they all they eat is like seals and and
and things along those lines and they
have a totally different language
totally don't understand each other they
don't interact with each other it was
that every pod has its own language it's
crazy they they put a whale in captivity
once and it was not eating because they
didn't know it was a seal eating whale
not a fish eating well and so it learned
I used to joke can you imagine like okay
Susie and Billy we're gonna go watch the
you know the Orca Shamu and then the
trainer's they're like throwing it seal
like that would not work out well like
yay that trick again yeah give it a slab
of cute little animal ya know so it's a
they're very complex
yeah well it's if it didn't exist it
would be way more interesting than
Bigfoot Yeah right everybody's like so
into Bigfoot being real like yeah I
don't get Bigfoot can you talk to me
about that like do you think what it
what is what's the concept of Bigfoot I
mean I know okay it's a big hairy guy
but yeah what I mean really come on what
is it most likely there was interaction
between human beings and something
called the Gigantopithecus for thousands
and thousands of years it's a giant
bipedal hominid that existed in Asia
that was between eight and ten feet tall
it was real and it was basically in like
the orangutan family it looks almost
orangutan like but enormous and that was
a real thing okay and they didn't find
out about this
like the 1920s they found a tooth in an
apothecary shop in China and an
anthropologist examine his tooth it was
like where the fuck did you get this and
they they took them to the site and they
dug up more things and bones and jaw
bones and they determined from the
jawbone I'm sorry if I'm fucking this up
scientists but they determined from the
jawbone that they think it was bipedal
that it stood up on two legs and so then
they said well how big would this thing
be and then in the proportionate yeah
like the feel you've seen what one a
real one looks like yeah I just
sometimes I when they say like Oh up in
Michigan I'm like is it really like what
are they seeing bullshit most of it is
people seeing shadows and the trees they
want to believe it's Bigfoot and there's
some bears that are walking on two legs
but if there was a thing what's really
interesting is that's where it would be
because if it did come across the
layering the the bearing a land bridge
like they believe humans did if that did
happen the many animals met and
navigated from there to here that way
that's where Alaska and the Pacific
Northwest that would be the the natural
path and then if you think about how
densely wooded that area is that would
be a natural habitat for something
that's hiding from people the problem is
you can't hide from shit anymore
it's just another things our theyetee
from space some something would catch
you on a trail camera some there's trail
cameras they're everywhere they're 4k
like did you see those these a guy and
his father got caught poaching a mother
bear in her den it's you know it's
horrific it's horrible it's not just
horrible because they poach this mother
bear in their den and left the babies
essentially to die but they were talking
about how they're not going to get
caught doing it like no one's going to
tie us to this and the way they were
caught there was a 4k camera that was
right behind them that was that was
observing this this whole area where
this bear was dead in they have these
trail cameras now that are incredibly
accurate they're so like it's so
high-definition super clear and the
audios clear they would catch while I
was walking things yes there was
something else out there but I think
there is something to be said for
or the Tooth Fairy and thinking we don't
know everything
yeah like them's fun the magic of stuff
unknown and behind I I mean for me it
doesn't have to be Bigfoot but I love I
love the idea that we haven't seen
everything we don't know everything and
obviously we know that with space and
who knows you know in dimensions and
time and universe but something mythical
is pretty fun
well what's interesting is that there
was a bunch of different kinds of humans
that's what's in training and they found
these bones and Russia that I think they
call them the Denisovans they they found
a set but this is within the last 10 15
years they found a completely different
species of humans that lived in Russia
they found those little people on the
Isle on a Flores that was only like 10
years ago
I mean there's there's probably dozens
more that they just haven't uncovered
somewhere so if there was at one point
time some big giant hominid it's totally
possible yes don't think you would have
to eat so much to be alive today yeah
beef tea constantly it's like a bear
yeah like you find bear shit everywhere
where's the where's the gorilla shit
with the Bigfoot shit whatever it is it
city is it eating plants is it eating
animals what the fuck is it eating right
it's gonna eat a lot a lot that's mean
big they only have a six foot something
husband at home and he eats a lot a lot
a lot all surfing all day that that dude
could put it down he can put it down you
know a preposterous amounts of food it's
now de big each meal or do you sort of
go okay dinner and a day what what's
your big home it's just white how you
feeling yeah it depends like sometimes I
have giant meals for dinner but
sometimes when I worked out too hard at
night I'll have a giant breakfast
right well I just have feet I just do
whatever I feel like doing but I
definitely always have intermittent
fasting it's at least six days a week
I took 16 hours off one day I don't give
a fuck it's amazing how much food we
don't really need yeah it is amazing I
used to eat way too much in like way too
much protein and stuff when I was
playing and going through different
phases of training um now do you go into
like a toffee and do all that - no okay
no I'll explain that to people
yeah well yeah it's just one sort of
step a bigger just a deeper step when
you when you you know do a little bit
intermittent fasting is if you don't
start the digestive process so if you
just had you can have water and caffeine
you can't have fats and things like that
the theory is is that whatever cell you
know dysfunction you have you kind of
can rinse out kind of three times the
amount the process of when you do
intermittent fasting so it can be a
really effective way when you're in a
minute fasting to say okay I'm going to
pick this four hour window
for most people probably be between like
three and seven or two and six and I'm
gonna eat and then the rest of the time
I'm not going to so it's it's very close
it's just sort of one more twist they
can put on it I think it's like eighty
Opio mmm you know so that's a 20 hour
fasted window every day yeah and I have
a friend who was doing it pretty
regularly and heaps - he looked
different really yeah please way ya know
he did he shifted his body composition a
little bit and it was interesting and
there's some interesting data
I'm sure Jamie can give you the download
on it yeah tava gee it's just sort of
like one notch higher it's not fun but I
you know like for me it would have to be
kind of I would want to eat between 1:00
and 5:00 I could do without it the rest
of the time and you can have like I said
caffeine and water it's incredible what
a pull mouth pleasure has like my kids
bought these Entenmann's cupcakes
there's any mins that's like old school
old school but they are bullshit these
cupcakes they're like what those
chocolate frosted things the white on
top a little white squiggly and the
inside is a cream filled goddamn was
delicious but while I was eating and I
was like what the fuck are you eating
man this is all nonsense you should be
touching this no but you can't do that I
think once you because we pretty strict
loads are a little more strict than I am
I think if you're gonna eat that cupcake
you enjoy it yeah I think B you know
even having that small conversation with
yourself is a colossal waste of time as
you shove it in your mouth and it goes
it's like because that's so human right
like it's like I shouldn't be doing this
but here I go you know why am I do it
why I shouldn't you know it's like I
think it's important to do it and enjoy
it but yeah that's not food that's like
I don't know what that is we had eaten
and I was full but that looks so good
like if someone had cut a piece of steak
and put it in front of me I'd be like
I'm good laughs I'm stuff but I saw that
cop kids like I can't eat anymore what's
for dessert I have a separate space for
that
that doesn't change cuz we're older I
still have a separate space it's just
you know try not to use it so much well
they say that for people that are in
like competitive eating competitions too
though you can still eat fries because
fries are you don't like fries I just
have the vision of a shoving it in the
water and then the bun and the hotdog
and then like you know squeezing it down
yeah yeah that you can eat fries cuz
what it's not protein no it's uh it's
the saltiness and the the the carbs you
could still eat you can always eat
another carve yeah like if you ate a
steak right and that steak was big 18
ounce ribeye you ate the whole thing but
oh but then you see those fries like all
over those fries and dip immense ketchup
oh you could keep eating you could eat
another thousand calorie that's when
you're in that food like trance yeah you
get those food trances yeah I mean you
have people I have friends that like you
know if you have any like thing out on
the counter that's snack ish like you
have it for the kids right and your
friends that come to visit and say hi
and they're kind of fidgety and all of a
sudden they're just like eating
everything and you just look at her like
girl like you're in a constant food like
trance knack it like don't have snacky
you know anything around and it can't
help themselves
oh no cannot yeah for sure no I but I
find it easier I don't know if you found
it easier like I had it I just have a
really heavy chocolate trip heavy like I
used to have a chocolate drawer like the
whole thing noburo like every kind of
chocolate like get open it and it wasn't
like a spin drawer it wasn't like a
silverware with drawer it was like a
deep drawer
every kind of chocolate and I I mean
stress yeah bust out the chocolate you
know whatever right before your time
chocolate kid walks in the room they
stain something you're like chocolate I
had every kind and it work
it does but then I stopped eating it as
much and now it's like I don't even
really want it as much it's weird I
really love dark chocolate with peanut
butter.you oh yeah I some dark chocolate
like jiffy oh yeah so I'm skipping me
some bullshit peanut butter I like the
crunchy stuff too so yeah because the
healthy stuff somehow and the oil and
the stuff is separate you need that
stuff that has like those unknown yeah
chemicals to make it really smooth do
you like this natural peanut butter this
isn't good it's not smooth look at that
natural peanut butter you gotta get that
fucking butter sandwich you rip a hole
in the bride you're like it's annoying
yeah now forget it it's either too dry
or too oily yeah it doesn't work it's
never perfect you can't make a sandwich
with it there's a sorry he did a stir
for you got to commit to a five minute
stir before you ever even think about
putting that shit on your bread
absolutely hey so you know I was
thinking I wanted to invite you you
could bring whoever you want to come
pool train with us
what's pool training what do you guys do
Jamie can you pull up like pool training
or xpt pool training xpt was that Sam
for this is another thing that we do but
this kit this is like a 12 year old
former training we built this pool and
layered you know it's always trying to
you know athletes in their offseason and
we were like his cracked like six of our
friends we built this huge pool and
there's like okay take some dumbbells
and go down there's Kyle job Kingsburg
yeah you're big my boy anywhere says T's
little suit the little girl to do it and
anyway
this is all the shallow stuff but
there's deep water that girl didn't get
going
they have dumbbells in their crotches
look at Kyle this is when he was a
little bigger still yeah do we have what
is the idea so okay so there's deep
water like you're 13 feet you have
weights ballistic
[Music]
ballistic training no no punishment to
your joints Oh interesting
doing cleans in the ocean or in the pool
brother yeah I don't this is all shallow
there's some deep water stuff and I'm
not sure why that guy is doing a little
did you drop the Dumbo all the way down
to the bottom and so you have drag and
stuff like that and also it's lighter in
the water and heavier out but this is
not this stuff I mean this is all good
it increases your lung capacity and
things like that but there is a deep
water element where so you can be
ballistic and you can do all this stuff
and you don't pound your joints and you
can get stronger so we have a lot of
athletes that come and train so that
they can sort of work on some of these
elements of their being more dynamic or
what-have-you
you're in compression it's it's pretty
cool and we couple it so I know you like
to do heat and stuff so we'll do like
heat nice and then pool and heat nice
and pool and things like that it's it's
pretty great and you're tired but you're
not beat up George st. Pierre actually
did a lot of that and training for his
last fight uh-huh did a lot of his work
in the pool here's a deeper stuff I say
so you can like and what's cool about
this too is is that you have to moderate
your breath because it's very
straightforward air no air air no air
hmm and people that are just listening
to this we're looking at these guys it's
probably like a nine-foot pool they have
dumbbells in their hands they drop all
the way down to the bottom and then let
their knees go to full full Bend and
then with their butt to their heels and
then jump right back up and pop out of
the water get a deep breath and then go
right back down again so you're
constantly leaping through the water to
go to the surface see how the skin
ripples so I actually think it's really
attractive when you're a girl - I just
wanna tell you what is that think about
this I actually think so you're in
compression so you've got those benefits
right and I think your tissue like your
fashion everything gets kind of rolled
almost in every every set with that
ripple I think so
and and that they're more shallow and
then there's more there's deeper and
things like that but there's probably
about 35 exercise
we've come up with oh wow Laird made us
all his crash test dummies but it it
well it kind of makes you feel like a
million bucks but you can kind of you
can bust your butt on it right but you
know you're not getting the pounding
well that's it I already have a fake
knee do you really yeah
when'd you blow it up well it was an
ongoing since my 20s and then finally at
I got it replaced Wow and it is the
difference now yeah oh so much better I
was right yeah I you still like sleep
with my good leg underneath my knee
trying to open my knee joint cuz it felt
like metal on like hot metal touching
and then your foot gets heavy you know
you if you lose a lot of your function I
tried everything you know like stem cell
and PRP and like you try everything cuz
you don't want to be like getting a fake
knee and then after I was like I'm sure
there'll be something better in ten
years but right now let's just do it
Wow so we went in the same day we
actually Laird got his hip done the same
day and I got my knee done how did will
Laird injure his hip repetitive trauma I
mean you know Laird is now 55 he was 52
and he got his hip and he's he's tough
on his body I mean you know he's tough
on his body and then if you're like
doing isometric loading when the foiling
that one hips taking a hit it's the back
leg it's you know it's a lot a lot of
load it's amazing though that he's
gotten back to surfing at the same level
it's he's he's very unique you know he
you know he says that everything he does
like his relationships what he reads
what he eats what he spends time doing
is all to enhance him to perform and his
you know a ton of people like this
his ability to deal with discomfort he
has a very good relationship with
discomfort so his training and stuff
it's you know he's a lot of those guys
wind up injuring themselves because that
mental toughness but he's really smart
he's not well you're not his age and
foolhardy he's not like let me show what
I can do he's a guy who can call it he's
a guy can go ya know it's not a good
idea so when they do the hip they have
to put that that rod through the center
of the hip
then put the new joint on the outside
it's all I mean he walked he stayed
awake they did a local and he left the
hospital three o'clock that day Wow
it's carpentry whack outs a choice
doctor huge it's not fine surgery
it's like carpentry and he stayed awake
because the guys like okay you can you
can handle it you know the noise or
whatever he same time and then he was
gone out out of the hospital Wow and how
long did it take to rehabilitate not
long I mean he was once the incision
closed he could go out in the water
what's that ten days hips you're pretty
cool
that's crazy that they can do that now I
had a buddy who did that Graham Hancock
he did that six weeks later who's here
and he told me after we were he was
walking around I was saying hi name was
that I had my hip replaced so I go when
was six weeks ago yeah the fuck are you
talking about you just walking you just
don't want to play golf you walk out of
the hospital okay bad thing well let's
say if you were loading your hip that
you load into you might want to not do
that right away sounds weird but that
make sense yeah yeah I could put on
weird torque on it yeah I know guys have
gotten back to jiu-jitsu with bad hips
oh yeah back to rolling and training
again it's you know what they basically
tell you is you don't want to do
anything you wouldn't want to do with
your real joint like the guys like so if
you ever gone to car accident you
wouldn't want your knees to go back and
in towards your hip it's like okay well
I don't think I'd want that to happen
with my natural hip so I think they're
pretty good is it significantly weaker
no not at all not at all so you can do
basically everything he can do
everything
wow that's crazy and he had a pretty
wicked limp the two of us were limping
around for like two years it was really
cool people like hey you guys are those
like athletes right that couple and
we're like hobbling around we're like
yeah stay right there we'll be right
there
it was a slight brutal our kids are like
what are you gonna do like I'm just
gonna run away you know run away I
stopped it right there you know what can
you do now with your knee can you do all
the things you used to be able to do can
you really it would be a bummer for
jujitsu guys cuz kneeling is kind of not
the best like if you said I'll give me a
million bucks cash right now Child's
Pose
that's tough really yeah that's tough
what part hurts I think for me it's also
part of my biomechanics that the tissue
on my my quads is like probably like
beef jerky from jumping all those years
so that's um I'm always working on so
maybe a more flexible person going in
would have more mobility in that bench
position but it just you know you get a
hard finish on it on the joint but I
think it's pretty amazing what you can
do like it's pretty far out can you side
step and stuff yeah I could play
volleyball if I wanted to you can jump
and land and be hard on it and really do
plyos and stuff yeah so they basically
say just do stuff that you would do
normally with your knee yeah I mean yes
be intelligent like you probably
wouldn't want to go on an
ultra-marathoner now cuz you might wear
your joint out in like two years right
but I think if you said I really like to
run but I'll go on the grass or the sand
barefoot probably better stuff like that
but that's what you want to do again
anyway yeah you know runnings pretty
tough on you yeah and it's not just
tough on your knees it's tough on your
back stuff and everything you want on a
hard surface
7 times your body weight right like each
step mmm I mean unless you're built like
when you see those people that are built
to run yeah it's perfect yeah so that
was that was sort of I think that's
what's interesting about being we need
people who almond athlete and and then
it's like and some days I don't I'm sure
you feel this way it's like I feel so
unathletic or so banged up or you know
like I have friends that came into
training late and everything all their
joints are like all perfect and you know
they work perfectly and sometimes I I
felt a little bit beat up Laird's been
beat up a lot but he he kind of trains
his way out of it big time now when you
guys are on Kauai is there a lot of
resources in terms of like places to
Train or physical therapists or any of
that kind of stuff no I think the other
islands like Oahu and Maui they would
certainly have it I was I actually this
group that owns this business there let
me use a warehouse and I taught a class
three days a week for free a dollar so
they were comforted under my insurance
because we have so little training like
we have we have acts we have a gym and
stuff but like the community on the
north then really so I started doing
that like three days a week to get
people there was like a hundred of us at
the same time well it was it was really
cool but but because they don't have
stuff to they don't have really great
facilities what a weird place to live is
it it's kind of badass don't you think
like when I go to New York City with
Laird he looks there and he looks at the
buildings and he's like why do people do
this to themselves like we've gotten
twisted around like you're like kawaii
what a weird place to live
right but in a way it's probably closer
to how we're meant to live oh for sure
you know stacked up on top of each other
but having said that yeah compared to
the other parts of the world I mean in
its remote like you're out there it's I
think besides Easter Island it's like
the most remote place in the world Wow
yeah really that's interesting what
makes sense yeah yeah it's far I mean
you know they navigated there and they
said that the water sea level was lower
so that they could see more land mm-hmm
when the Polynesians sailed there but
it's pretty uh it's a pretty interesting
contrast to living like in Malibu yeah
but then in a way not because you're
surrounded by nature right yeah I think
it's probably a far more healthy way to
live I just I just know that a lot of
people do get that Island fever and they
can't take it they want to get the fuck
off yeah and like if when you have a
family like when my kids were young it's
like you're doing the same thing you're
taking them places you're making dinner
as you're making lunches so in a way
you're just doing sort of everyday
things in a really pretty place mm-hmm
and also you probably live a little
simpler yeah it's got to be better for
you in terms of like the amount of
stress that you experience and the
beauty of nature is very calming and
soothing and probably therapeutic and
beneficial yeah but it's that reminder I
mean this has been thing for me it's
like you could have all that at your
access but if you're not if you haven't
dealt with yourself or you're hunting if
you're feel miserable
it sort of doesn't really matter and I
think that that kind of place points it
out really quick where when you live in
a busy place you can distract yourself
from yourself and you can be like oh
there's traffic and I have stuff to do
and I'm busy I'm a busy person I'm at an
office I do all the stuff and when
you're there you can't blame really the
traffic you can you sort of have to go
oh that's right so it's an interesting
thing of when we talk about like health
or or beautiful places and things like
that it still always comes back to
yourself mmm and like am I have I made
myself happy am i doing things that make
me feel good things like that so I think
what's really great about that place is
that gets clear real quick mmm do you
guys have real internet out there
totally like legit Internet I mean we
had dial-up till about 18 months ago for
real no but I mean do you have
high-speed in there like 5g it or
whatever they've got that blanket over
us there but is that the mind control 5g
net or everybody's worried about that I
know latest freaking out about it
5g well we did really something about
they do have the ability it does have an
effect on human brains that's what I
mean it's like pretty pretty good we're
gonna do ourselves in one day with
innovation we're gonna keep going
absolutely until one day we've well
fucked ourselves sadly I think that's
the way that it goes right like you get
so smart that you devolve I checked it
when I was a kid we had a Mad Magazine
and I'll never forget it I was like 11
years old and there was a sketch of this
explosion in space and it was like two
aliens talking and they were looking at
at this explosion you know millions of
miles away and they go oh they said
smart beings lived there you know pretty
much I mean I think that in a way we're
or probably I mean we do a lot with
water and air and things like that but
it is interesting to see I'm always
fascinated that people will do stuff for
money like guys like guys running
companies and they go well it's okay
about the pollution or the byproduct and
you go yeah but your kids or your
grandkids are gonna like money's not
going to protect you from if the climate
goes bizarre
yeah but they feel like someone else
gonna fix that they do I got to get this
money you think I'll get that money yeah
I think it's just compartmentalization
they just don't don't think about the
also they're a part of a corporation and
everybody just does their little task
right but it does trip me out like you
know like you know we say the rain falls
on everyone's house like it's coming for
everything no matter how much cheese you
have well it's also the effect that
we've had on it has been over this
window of a hundred years yeah long and
massive effect
I mean unbelievably massive effect on
the environment it's just a short window
of time in terms of you know when you
I'm sure you saw it jiro Dreams of Sushi
yeah great right yeah one that they're
sitting around talking about the fish
markets back in the day we'd get so much
more tuna like like one day fished out
this is one you're alive man so when
this guy's in during his lifetime and
went from abundance of tuna to being
almost fished out yeah and they're not
slowing down
Sushi's everywhere it's like I know what
we've done in 30 years is pretty far out
crazy I know it's easy I know it's a
it's funny because my kids I don't know
if you see this with your kids it's like
I think they're pretty aware of it
mm-hmm and they I think that they go
flip and flop between feeling like the
adults are poorly behaved and they're
left of the pile of you know of our bad
decisions and also like my one daughters
like is do you think it'd be okay to be
like a militant environmentalist you
know she's like six feet tall and I'm
like that'd be fantastic
she Shepard on steroids like you know
you know so I think it's gonna be
interesting to see you know with the
next group because they're obviously
really different like they don't want
big giant houses and all that stuff that
you know sort of my generation and your
generation thought that's how you think
the new generation is different in their
values and what I do right they say that
they they give more they volunteer more
I think the tricky thing for them is
going to be connection and being able to
be connected and being able to have real
conversation
and you know even be able to concentrate
long enough to be with somebody because
of devices yeah I mean I think it's far
could you imagine right now if you were
no and being like dating and swiping and
trying to pay attention and or even ten
you know my daughter is one of the few
girls in her closet doesn't have a cell
phone what's the age did they get him
like they've had them since they were
like seven no I mean you're right kids
like what's the rule in your house
there's a debate all right now let's
figure it out well okay so you have a
ten you're going to be 11 yeah I think
that they say there's like a movement
wait till 8th yeah you heard that yeah
like ten kids in the class all the
parents agree so they're not the only
person in the class that doesn't have it
but it's not that way with my daughter's
kids the kids in her class
most of them iPhones most parents just
give the kid a phone yeah it's just
there's uh have you read any of Jonathan
hates stuff the coddling in the American
yeah of course and that that is just so
disturbing when you see the amount of
especially young girls that are growing
up depressed cutting themselves so harm
what's that like 400% he said like from
10 to 14 or something crazy like that
like something insane massive spike that
directly coincides with the invention of
smartphones and social media yeah the
slot machine yeah it's this this thing
where people are just trying to get
likes and trying to leverage their you
know their social status and and try to
pretend that they're living in a perfect
world to everybody around them and
everyone else is doing it and people
look at other people's lives being
perfect and they reflect upon their own
they get depressed there's just so many
factors that kids didn't have to deal
with just a decade or so ago it's really
off right like at least if I had a hard
time at school I could go home and have
a reprieve from it at least overnight I
think for me that's that's been a thing
with my kids is like especially
daughters I do think I understand the
gaming is different for boys and porn uh
pornography and things like that not
whole trip of rewiring their brain and
but I think with girls it's like how do
you get them to understand why don't
know how they're going to get to a place
where they I mean cuz every it's like
this weird mish-mosh of like
me too and then never before had people
objectified themselves more because they
gettin them that positive affirmation
like I always say if I put out really
smart ideas if I'm a young woman oh I
have a thousand followers every shot is
of my but I have ten million followers
so we have this mixed message going on
which is like I'm angry me to treat me
equal simultaneously to I'm going to
objectify myself in the most hardcore
way more than in any time in history
when I attack the results and it's
really but for me as a female who
understands both those sides a little
bit I kind of trips me out because I
don't think you like those girls you
know playing that card and have no
violence should be done to you and I
agree with all of that no is no and all
of that but at a certain point you know
like you've had Jordan Peterson on here
many times it's like biological
signaling it's like what I play a side
at least and also that oh that's that
one side is super short-lived that's
what I try to tell my girls I'm like yo
listen if you're you know you're pretty
girls it's great but if that's the card
you're playing your cards done like by
the time you're 30 35 it's done it's
over I mean you know unless you're like
40 and you marry a seven-year-old I
don't know or whatever giving the MILF
porn is that such a thing yeah yeah but
even that it's like they got to put a
filter on it and like all that stuff I
mean come on how do you get these girls
to go hey stand up for yourself be
strong but like what are you doing
but look at all these people that are
not doing that that are benefiting I
know but it's getting them to understand
how do you get a thirteen-year-old to
talk about the long game right I mean
everything's immediate but for me it's
like it's culturally I feel like I'm
this weird mix of like the most I came
through at the most modern time like
women went to school and on scholarships
and like we we there was no thought to
being like strong not really and then
but then weirdly it's like I feel so
kind of old
and when I see kind of this next thing
because I'm like well strong for me was
something else strong was like you were
really physically strong trying to have
a strong mind you know strong basis of a
person and then okay then there was this
other side like your femininity your
sexuality all this other stuff and now
it's like I don't know I it's very
interesting well there's certainly a
bunch of different kinds of people right
and there's gonna be people that
gravitate towards objectifying
themselves
that's kind people that gravitate in
this day and age towards you know you
see a lot of people's pages are just
filled with motivational quotes and
inspirational things and you know and
the stories about people that they meet
and photos and you get a lot of people
that are attracted to that kind of stuff
too it's just you're not gonna get the
immediate gratification of a picture of
your ass
that picture of your ass it gets a
hundred thousand likes like wow those
likes yeah and then you know it's just a
different vibe and you have to decide
what are you after you have to quantity
or quality or after we trying to
accurately Express how you feel and work
it out through communicating with people
and figure out how they react what
you're saying and how you feel about how
other people say similar things and how
it does good things for you and you want
to do good things for them or do you
just want to have my but yeah so a piece
of dental floss up to crack your ass yes
sticking it in front of the camera this
you know no and I get that like I get
also like I always say when you're a
young woman you sort of get this new car
and you're like well what happens like
what if I put my foot on the gas like
you're sort of checking it all out like
they respond like this if I do that like
that's completely natural but then at a
certain point I don't know that the
input is like you know like who do you
want to be and not based on what
everyone thinks about you like what
actually turns you on and and makes you
feel excited and stoked because you know
it's great that you have a nice butt but
there's a lot of nice butts and in the
end that's not probably gonna bring you
that other feeling the problem is that
there's a thrill to positive reaction
absolutely and that thrill is undeniable
I would like it I was too old
people and when people get that thrill
then you tell them hey that thrills bad
for you you look fuck off mom no no I
mean a bolt on to that message how about
not like get the thrill but
simultaneously to doing the thrill maybe
have some other thoughts about where you
where you'd like to continue to journeys
to yeah but you know I think when you
tell that to a thirteen-year-old they
hear it eventually yeah I think in the
beginning like yeah yeah I got this yeah
and later when it all goes sideways like
god damn wish to listen to mom yeah I
think you just got to be it too and have
some like cool friends that hang around
you because you're if you're the parent
it's like okay you're gonna penetrate so
much but if you've got some like you
know in Hawaii they call them auntie's
if you got some badass chicks around you
and your daughters are looking they see
right they say but what if you don't
have access to that I have a lot of
pretty strong cool women around me but
that not that it concerns me I don't
want to say that it's just how do you
help the next group you know try to be a
good example love on them but get them
to teach them to love on themselves
right that's all and I don't mean with
eyelash extensions and like perfect
things I mean like love on yourself yeah
you know well that's the other thing too
this is a distortion distortion of
natural beauty and to you know make it
so that everything has to be artificial
the color of your lips the color of your
eyeshadow fake lashes everything is just
that doesn't it doesn't look better
it just looks different do you think I
I'm always fascinated what men think
like do they even like did they does it
even register do they know what's going
on in what way well I guess we'd have to
ask men of that generation if let's say
they had two groups of women and one
that was like perfectly quaffed with the
lip injection quaffed is it yeah I like
that I'm talking about like eyelash
extensions Joe but like just sort of
really done like ready for the club
let's just say and then just like a girl
like hi I'm you know I'm a sweaty runner
and now I'm
gonna go to the office and put my hair
up in a ponytail I don't know whatever
if guys if they even can they tell the
difference yeah for sure
yeah yeah I mean it's all what you're in
what you're into yeah yeah some guys
just like I'm soft and made up some guys
like I'm sweaty and muscular yeah it's
no and I get all that I love that I just
mean again it's hardcore signaling and I
guess that's maybe that's what it is
maybe it's the new biology well it's
also that there's never been a time like
I got a bit on one of my Netflix
specials were about this girl who's got
just pictures of her ass yeah like 9
million followers on Instagram like he's
never been a person like this before
this is a new kind of personally fuck
fuck looking at these frogs in the
Amazon that no one's gonna say there's a
new kind of person yeah this girl just
has pictures of her butt and she's got
millions of people staring at her all
day long and every day is just new
pictures of her but it's a great point I
always am intrigued how they decide like
oh we're gonna do the butt on the beach
now let's do the butt next to the puppy
it's like I'm so confused how they keep
getting ideas I can't even four
different things and it's like I know
we'll do but with the cotton candy it's
like okay I don't know I think it
becomes a obsession I mean I think you
have to stay fresh with new butt ideas
is that like a butt editor envelope
editor my audio hey let's close in the
head butt editor here but at but calm I
don't know but if you have a girl who
has let's say some of these girls have
millions and millions of followers and
they're making millions of dollars
they're crushing it yeah maybe they're
actually the smartest people in the room
and I haven't caught on yet it's
certainly an easy path to finances I
know right if you have a great ass and
you like working out anyway and you just
want to take pictures of it also then
you have 25 million followers like damn
but this goes also okay we do quite a
job no definitely not cuz nobody she can
say well I'll do the right thing and
work at the library I'm not supposed to
that it's just I mean if it was my kid
I'd be like you know sweetie you might
want to weigh out the economics on this
right I think you said something really
important it's a whole new thing yeah
and I think
however it's sort of like the
communication you're always having which
is well what is success mmm and for me
it's that's all it's like getting people
encouraging them whatever that is
whatever that looks like you know you
said this like oh you do the show
whether anyone was listening or not most
likely right probably I mean until you
couldn't afford it anymore let's just
say but obviously I would do it just to
have the conversations I'll do it right
maybe I wouldn't do it as much but I
would definitely do it right if I had it
like if someone said hey you know every
few months a physicist will come in here
and sit down with you for hours it like
yeah let's do it
that's what I want to do yeah well
you're bringing information to you and
learning to you so for you part of your
definition that's success yeah and so I
guess that is the conversation because
we always have this thing that's obvious
thing of like success is it either is
notoriety its power its money and then
we forget those other communications
about like the pursuit of something that
really genuinely turns you on
well I think people get short-sighted
and you definitely can get success we
just have money and you just have
objects you have notoriety and people
will view it as success but if you're
not doing what you love it's not pure
success it's a different kind of success
like if you really find something that
you enjoy doing and then you take that
like Laird has with surfing or many
people have with their passions and then
you become successful through that it's
a different existence because it's an
it's a pure existence like when I do
stand-up comedy or if I do like
commentary for the UFC it's a very it's
a pure enthusiasm yeah it's genuine
comes across I don't have to fake it
it's I enjoy doing it that's to me I
don't I know everybody can't do that no
everybody feels like they can't do that
or they haven't figured out a way to do
that yet right but if you can if you can
if there's a thing that you can do like
maybe I would have made more money if I
went into the stock market may be able
to made more money if I was a banker
maybe I don't know but I definitely
wouldn't be as happy there's no way if
I'm the same person I am now and I was
in a fucking office all day making a
hundred times as much money I'd be
miserable right and I think that I guess
for me that's maybe when I see the
thing with the girls and like I said
feeling sensitive to it because I have
daughters or just young people in
general it's that conversation of like
you know just keeping that definition of
success open and by the way this other
path that taking it like following your
own instincts or desires or passions
there's elements to that that are our
heart are harder for sure it's more
unknown you can feel insecure like is
this the right thing to do I mean we've
gone I mean in our house we've gone
through that 50 different times you know
it's like I'm going to do this because I
really want to I don't know what's gonna
happen right and I don't know if it's
gonna be successful I might even lose
money who knows but that once you start
to do it or you do it once or twice then
you go oh but it's so worth trying if
you can pull it off that's the thing
that like in everything worth doing is
hard to do everything and but by the way
you might pursue we've pursued ten
businesses and like one is soup really
thriving two are doing well and the rest
like we ate it we ate it in cash we ate
it in time we did so I think that's the
other thing that's important is I okay
you know it's like sports how many times
you know do you lose to you you lose a
lot in order to win and I think I think
that's something that for me like with
my girls it's like they just try to work
really hard and hear your own voice and
and follow that if you can and it is
scary I think it's scary
you're also a person who's had that
opinion reinforced through vigorous work
over the years I mean you're you're
you're a super successful competitive
athlete which is one of the most
difficult things for a person to do to
like force your body to perform better
than everybody else's figure a way to
win figure a way to get points scored
figure way we're all these other people
we're all so high level athletes are
trying to stop you from doing it figure
out a way to succeed and you're gonna
fucking fail there's no way around it
you're gonna have ups and downs but
you're going to understand the value of
pursuit of dedication and discipline and
your kid
are gonna see that like they they must
know their mom is a badass well I don't
know I understand who you are yeah no
yes and no I think it's interesting
because then you know like how sons can
push against dads yeah and of dads
identities right sure there's times not
my youngest and less my oldest but my
middle went through a phase where it was
like she was almost like I'm gonna I'm
gonna knock her off her high horse no
like my records my real estate that I
that was my real estate and it's like
and you know she's a big strong kid and
but then she I think she realized like
oh no no no this is more about me
finding my own real estate like my mom
did that because that was what my mom
had to do and what she what was good at
and that was my thing and it was but
there was a minute that I think listen
no kid looks at their parent that they
actually live with by the way and is
like yeah they're cool there's just no I
mean like it might desert did that man
called like four times a year they'd be
like it's my mom she's on the phone
right she's an exotic country they're
like you know get me some water I'm
going to bed like you know it's like
it's no different in any house and by
the way I I have this new thing I'm
doing right now with my youngest
daughter because she can get me like she
can get me like nobody's business like
Laird oh he's jokes he goes you two are
not allowed to drive in the car together
anymore like we come home from one ride
from school and I'm on the mats alright
this kid is like cuz we're very similar
and she just worked me and then she work
you was just you and her alone she's no
dummy
this kid is so smart we always joke I
like Brody gonna run something I just
want her to have friends hopefully you
know that she's she's pretty radical and
she always gives you this look to while
she's carving you up that's like a
slight smirk on her so and then you
think I'm I'm you know I'm I've been
around I'm trying to be evolved and I
don't think I'm having a you know
insulin spike like I should be balanced
in calm I think I meditated this morning
and I'm like four seconds and I'm like
like no push your buns and it becomes a
little sport for him yeah so now okay so
this is the best so I go okay I Laird
was telling me the story years ago he
got he went down a river raft
went down a river and went down the
rapid and got pinned against a rock okay
and it was breaking on his back and he
said he was pushing on the rock and
pushing couldn't get off okay and he
said he had this image of like a
skeleton like on the rock you know like
with the water just pounding on it you
know it's like the clothes all messed up
and he said he he moved his foot it
wiggled his foot and his whole body
slipped out oh wow and so I said with
when I see my youngest daughter I'm
gonna wiggle my foot because I keep
pushing and prodding and she's just
coming you know she's a hydraulic like
it's not stopping it's nonsizi like
she's younger than me she has more
energy she's faster I mean you know and
so I go I'm just gonna wiggle my foot
like literally to the point where even
if I need the physical cue like if she
stand there doing some of her weird
bullshit I'll just be like what move my
foot just to give him a trigger like
I've got a tree my parent I'm like
against the ropes like everybody else
and so and I have a partner who supports
me and sometimes he looks at me like who
no that's not that strong of a game gap
and so so you know we'll we'll get into
it and I and also I'll go to pick her up
and my whole thing is one nice I talked
to my kids in the morning like first
thing I always say hey good morning like
I try really hard to be the adult and to
be the parent right like that's what I
really want to do like I really want to
show up as the adult and flawed be it I
still be like you know I at least she's
acting like an adult that that woman
over there you know get me water and so
uh she'll get in the car and I'll be
like hi honey how was your day at school
you know I try even the hook of the fake
nice tone and everything yeah I don't
really you know listen I spent almost
seven hours there I really don't want to
talk about school took a colossal waste
of time hold that she 11 she's like and
then she said to me yesterday I'm not
exaggerating she goes you know and if
you listen no offense I'm sorry mama
dude I just if you can't tell I don't
like to talk that much it seems like a
waste of time
she's very self-contained I'm thinking
through that but okay so then I'm like
all right what another strategy so I go
oh that's cool like I can be
self-contained like I'm cool I don't
need you I go sweetie I don't care no
problem I just click over a little bit
into my mail like okay I've this car and
maybe I'm gonna drive a little faster
and like let's go and within three
minutes somehow all the things I said I
wasn't gonna get lured into nothing I'm
gonna wiggle my foot all this like
philosophical stuff I've been reading
books she gets me and she's like 95
pounds she's my only kid that gets me
like this and it's literally like if you
went into a restaurant and you said okay
I'm not gonna order the lasagna and the
hamburger and the double fries with the
chilli sauce and you walk in and you go
I'll take the little sign near the
hamburger and then it's like the one
thing I said I wasn't gonna do and she
gets me every time so that's something
I'm always really trying to figure out
and also like sir back away from I this
lady actually you should have her on
your show have you ever heard of Byron
Katie no you got to get her Jaime you
got to get her she taught me a lot of
stuff but it's basically like full and
men do this better generally and yes
there are women that do it as well as
men I'm not getting into all that but
it's like surrendering mmm like maybe my
kids gonna grow up and they're gonna be
completely different than what I thought
or what they would be or my expectations
and that's actually probably closer to
the real the real thing so I can be that
you know going through sports
I was like man volleyball is way easier
than this it is it's just very it's cuz
it straightforward right take the ball
hit the line yeah take take the ball and
hit the other line oh okay no that was
did you complete that no I didn't hit
the line okay hit the line is your
eleven-year-old involved in sports
oh yeah the worst sport ever what sport
horses
like beauty pageants on big animals
worse parents don't think it's cute to
take six year olds and think oh it's so
sweet we'll get them we'll go ride
horses because then they fall in love
with horses and then they want better
horses and then they want pretty horse
pants and then the boots and my buddy's
daughters deep in the horse Killians
game she I have to say to her I'm sorry
you were not born to millionaires I'm
really so sorry for you it's pretty
heavy my middle daughter is into tennis
and she's pursuing tennis and I'm trying
to figure out how to manipulate my young
one out of away from horses and she'll
say to me I know you think it's a phase
and it's not oh just gonna make it an
odd phase and she's and that's why I'm
like no do whatever you want but you
have to use your own the body at least a
couple days a week I go because you're
using the body of the horse and by the
way doesn't it frustrate you
I even tried this I can't believe I'm
admitting this I mean I thought you guys
loved the animals you know like you
really loved horses
and what you're doing to them is not
good for the horses whoa they land on
the same foot and she's like they jump
in nature I go they don't not with a
hundred pounds on their back they don't
and not they don't land on the same leg
I've tried that I can't do that anymore
that's not fair I totally and then the
other thing I've tried is doesn't it
irritate you if you are on a horse and
you were more talented as an athlete or
you had trained harder but your horse
wasn't as good so you couldn't win done
and she just looks at me like I'm gonna
ride this out she doesn't care it's
nothing that's her because that's what
frustrates me imagine if it was like I
had a better guy than you so I could
kick your ass and you know jujitsu
because Mikey was more expensive mmm
you'd be like wait a second I trained
twice as hard as you I've been doing it
longer and maybe I'm just better than
you nope Mikey's more expensive so if
you have a shitty horse there's nothing
you could do about it
and the judges know they know they know
so yeah I would never get into that and
I don't come from that I barely come
from like if I didn't hit a white ball I
wasn't even going to university never
mind like you know this whole horse
world things
horsehide I thought myself I went to a
show once and I was like saying good
morning to all the groomsmen like good
morning sir good afternoon and like
giving stink-eye to all the ladies you
know I was like yeah this is an upside
down Worsley these are a different thing
yeah I just I I really this is one of my
I lose sleep over this show really yeah
I do I do
mm-hmm mm-hmm it's a lot of money it
that's not the part I mean I lose sleep
over that too because I'm like Claire's
gonna kill me but but cuz then the flip
side of it is I got a kid who's into
something she'll go to the barn if you
let her seven eight hours she'll work
with the horses
lunge them do all this stuff so then
you're like okay well she's into
something this is not a kid who will sit
around and not do anything but I just I
guess for me it's the you know it's it's
the it's a money sport you know yeah
that weird bubble wheely thing yeah you
know so that that part was like I was
like oh god how did we get here yeah
yeah that's what my friend is dealing
with with his daughter how old is his
daughter
she's ten Oh is he in deep already yeah
did is he Lisa work yeah yeah got a
horse they have they brought a horse at
least oh okay yeah yeah yeah yes I
didn't know you could and there's horse
brokers there's a whole thing of times
it's a shyster a whole trip it's super
expensive to lease a horse too right I
think it's like 40 grand a month or
something crazy no that's like well then
you've got a really fancy horse but it's
expensive and I made that number up yeah
you did and then that's like Bill Gates
daughters or something but then it's
like I don't know for me that's a but
again as a parent I had these are one
more of my lessons like hmm I'm not her
and she's not me right I have AI as much
as I used to think I was so in charge of
so many things you know I think being in
a long relationship I've been with Laird
almost 24 years it's like you start to
learn like oh okay I'm I'm not
I can impact you I can influence you I
can support you I can love you I could
try to inspire you but
I'm not here to it's like even as a
parent like I'm not here to control
anyone and that's a hard thing because
when you get a little baby you control
you're in charge that's what you need to
be and then all of a sudden it's like oh
yeah no that shift is they don't I wish
people need to talk more about like the
shift of because we're not objective and
you know the tools that you need you got
to keep adding tools and it's it's very
humbling
do you find it easier to do on Kauai or
at in California is it any different
well it depends right so if I meet my
middle daughter who's a teenager not on
Kauai she looks 18 or 19 and you know
there's not a lot to do and so that's
tricky there here like she she basically
lives at a tennis house and she goes
she's homeschool and she does five to
seven hours of tennis her choice as of
in the last couple of months so it's
easier because there's just more
productive things to do hmm
what I like is when they're little Kauai
is great because it's so simple the life
is simple so what kids are thinking
about is like playing and being in
nature and like developing also a
toughness to them that maybe like city
kids have it different you know cuz like
they're barefoot and they're like
climbing trees and they're throwing
rocks at each other and it's just like a
little more rough and tumble so when
they're little kawaii certainly easier
and then as they get older that's what
we're we're we're serve at now it's like
you got to adapt and put these kids give
them a launching pad if you will because
the problem is like I went through this
growing up in an island it's like you
don't know all that's out there to dream
to do and it's even if it's you know
everything in life it's so true about
like being like the alchemists like I
even see it with Laird it's like he went
out into the world he's done all this
stuff and there's certain things we're
doing in projects right back onto kawaii
and and so there's always going to be
that element probably of I went and I I
did all these things i express myself
all these ways and then there's some
basic parts about where I exactly
started that are still really
to me but I think it's important for
kids to see like it doesn't matter where
you're from or how you grew up like
certainly learned I both the same way
it's like you you really could try to do
anything and and pursue that if it's in
you if it's genuinely in you and calling
you and I want that for my kids and I
don't care what that is but just they
have something that they get up each day
and they're like yo I'm turned on yeah
that really is what people need they
really need something they love doing
that's it and I think that's when I was
talking about success is sometimes we
have all this you know kind of bells and
whistles and attention around getting
attention and I think people don't
realize that getting attention I mean
you know this for yourself it's like
yeah it's great but what is it like what
is it really and when you close the
doors and you're hanging with your
people that are your close to its like
you know what's making you excited for
real and who loves you for real in that
way of like it's great if people
appreciate your work that always feels
good but if you're doing it for your
real reasons then I already think that
is a real success and we spend a lot of
time working so why not have something
that we're fired up on and that's the
thing because it's like you know you
spent a long time of your life working
what do you want to do yeah then guiding
a child into that direction of trying to
set them up in a way that they view
their life as kind of a project and the
most enjoyment you're gonna get is find
a thing that excites you the find the
thing that you really get inspired by
some that whatever the fuck it is it's
gonna be different for you than it is
for me
you got to find out what that thing is
but it's all the same thing once you
find out what that thing is that that
thing genuinely gels with your
personality and your likes and your
passion just run with it you can do it
yeah you can run with it and it changes
too I think that's the other thing is
also we get to find like okay you were
doing this one job and then it's like
okay but that job is over like it's like
being an athlete or a you know you know
competing competitive athlete on an
organized platform that
a day at a time and then when that's
over do you want to look back and keep
talking about that or do you want to
look and see who you are now and who
you'd like to be and I think that that's
always a you know kind of an important
thing to teach people especially people
that have well I'm I'm a comedian I was
a professional athlete it's like okay
that's cool I had some guy coming to me
once and say hey um I was at the golf
course and I was one of my kids were
hitting golf balls and he goes weren't
you that volleyball player Gabby and I
was like well no I'm I'm still Gabby but
one of the things I've done is play
volleyball and I think that that
actually if we can get to that that's
even better it's like Who am I and then
off of this non you know as far as like
it whether you're older or younger or in
one part of your career or not it's like
you still can always be the essence of
yourself and then it's like oh and now
right now I'm doing this and then and I
was you know but I'm not I'm not for all
time just a you know a ballplayer
fighters have a huge problem with that
their identifies being fighters so much
that once they retire they almost almost
all of them except for a small
percentage almost all of them come back
because they just they miss it so much
they miss the excitement in the thrill
and they don't know who they are without
that pursuit the pursuit is the next
fight the pursuit is training camp
getting ready and when they don't have
that for a long time it just starts
really chipping away at them well I
think to the amount of focus it takes to
be really good at that kind of stuff or
to run a company or anything it it makes
sense why it's so hard to try to
diversify while you're doing then it is
really hard but I think it's important
to quietly keep that voice inside your
head going yeah but who are you run
beyond that expression of yourself who
are you what do you how do you feel
about things and also the opportunity
like to kind of grow up mmm you know
there's so many opportunities like 30 40
50 like to try to and I don't mean grow
up in the notion of like you're so
responsible now I mean like grow up in a
way
that like maybe you you change your
ideas and the way you do things and you
know I was I was talking Laird I was in
this situation this week where I
something had gone down I didn't like
the way it had gone down it wasn't to do
with him and I was like you know what
I'm I'm not gonna attach to this like I
I know better so now I'm just gonna
notice that it kind of bugs me and I'm
not gonna attach all the way to that
feeling into that experience and for me
that's more what I mean about growing up
not like being you know grown up because
I actually think the more growing up we
are also means we could probably be more
childlike - mm-hmm for sure both so it
isn't about like be responsible it's
just a different freedom so I mean I
would think in the end that that would
be a more interesting quest than I was a
champion anything right I don't know and
it's not sexy and it's internal but I
don't know it's can be I think pretty
rich well I think ultimately for a
person who's experienced athletic highs
and the highs of accomplishments but
also understands real personal struggle
that's when like a person like you
you've experienced so many different
things that you can you and understand
what's actually beneficial towards you
right and it's pretty simple I hate to
that's kind of the heavy part it's like
it's like being married to Laird like
Laird is wants to go to bed at 8:30 and
Laird wants to get up early and he keeps
it pretty simple and I it's an
interesting thing because within it
there's um he seems pretty good I mean
as long as there's sometimes waves that
guy is like that seems like a that's
pretty straightforward well that's it
right like how do i how do I get the
highest ideas the biggest ideas you know
whether it's like dealing with ego or
whatever get the biggest ideas and then
get everything else pretty stripped down
pretty simple yeah
because otherwise it just I feel like
you're running around and I'm I like I
love the day so I'm running around I'm
like what am i reacting to like what
like what
is going on like I'm like a crazy person
right and then it's like okay you know
you gotta back it up in it and listen
with kids it's hard because you're only
as good as like your whatever your kids
are going through I mean and then
there's elements of it like they're
going through things and you go it's
probably pretty natural you know even if
it's super hard it's like and that's
okay too and you don't want that for
them but I think you know that's
something I've really learned is like I
did god it's a memory that you have to
go through that and it's hard to watch
and I don't want you to and that's okay
too because that's part of it's really
cool though to see them come out on the
other end and then talk to you about it
oh it's not bothering me so much more
Omar yeah I get it
yeah I was just upset but I'm alright
you know it was really cool thing I
learned because I am you know listen I'm
I'm pretty not Siri I die I'm a pretty
serious person like Laird is sort of the
lighter person of the two of us and I
someone sort of gave me some information
about like not resisting with my kids
like my oldest was going through
something and I said I just need to tell
you how I feel about this but I didn't
make it a big deal I just sort of
dropped it off and said hey this I'm
feeling and she said to me very clearly
and she was like 22 this just feels like
something I have to do and I remember
thinking I felt like that and nobody
understood what I was doing and I
understood I had to something I had to
do for my reasons and I was right for
myself and what I did is I just went
okay I get it and where I wanted her to
end up happened so much quicker because
I didn't put up the resistance and
that's the other thing I mean how long
does it take me to learn that one it's
like you know not having to try to
resist or navigate every single
situation and just go okay and and then
you get through it so much faster and
they get through it no I know you're
like super in nutrition and yeah Laird
has this you guys have this company
super food yeah do you force that stuff
on your kids are you kidding my kids if
they want to eat pasta and whatever they
can eat whatever they whatever they want
yeah because I cook dinner so we know
what dinner looks like my kids I always
say just know what's the difference
between food and fun like be clear bagel
is a lot of fun right not food right
because I just want to send them into
the world equipped with the information
on how they can take care of themselves
right because if you make anything a
thing don't have that when they go to
their friend's house they'll have a bag
of chips the clicker and they'll be like
I love it here yeah so I am like I eat
whatever you want and my kids eat pretty
healthy that's awesome that they listen
that way they don't listen well that
they figured it out that they eat
healthy you're smart
well also okay so my middle for a minute
like never met a carb she didn't like
right and it was like it was bad for a
minute she was like 12 13 whatever and
then she and she knows the difference
and she was also using food to set you
know kind of sways some feelings and
other stuff too that's real interesting
thing but then she's come around it but
it's not let's not pretend that my kids
listen they don't they must a little no
they don't no doubt your example that's
more it they're watching but they don't
listen you think in a way learned I
could be sort of may be imposing parents
in some way and I'm telling you they are
not they don't it doesn't there's they
look at us like what do you got it's
like come on it's your move so I've just
learned like it's your choice like this
is what I'm serving for dinner I don't
have pop in the house obviously but if
like we want some place you know I
showed him a picture when they were
little remember the guy who did like Eat
This Not That Dave with the Z from men's
health the editor anyway it was like
seven or eight chocolate chip cookies
and a Sunkist soda opposite each other
and I'm like do you want to cookies or
do you want that soda and they got it
it's like okay cuz it showed how much
sugar was in both so it's just that kind
of stuff but they don't it's not like we
live so healthy and they listen you know
I mean like
Greenfield right he lives in like the
forest and they that's different it's a
different level of control I don't have
that kind of control yeah Ben's got a
weird thing going on out there
his kids listen do they they must
they're out in the forest they have to
that's what I mean
I'm saying I don't have that level of
containment brah that that's how he has
to deal with predators like living
predators yeah you can't really let your
kids just go loose in your backyard no I
know keep an eye on them it's easier
than coca-cola and Cheetos though in a
different kind of way I'm just saying
like predators very straightforward like
it's a predator don't go out there it's
like well you know this food it's in a
bag it's got you know it's not that good
for you your cell functions like okay
what my friends do it it's like you know
predator so I just think I don't know I
just think I think I've surrendered to
the idea of them listening and I just
try to show them the best example and
they are intelligent people that I have
faith in will arrive at their own
conclusion and by the way you know they
make other choices
I don't think so though how many kids
leave Kauai like when they grow up not
many I don't think I think it's it's
tough because it is so beautiful and
magical and on some level intuitively it
makes so much sense there you know what
I mean like it makes a lot of sense
right like the food's growing there's
certain things that and you go into the
real world you're like whoa do they have
good supermarkets er yeah it's just
everything costs of a box of cereals
like $9 well no for real so it's hard
but some kids leave I would think that
that would be a difficult transition
between going from Kauai it's like
moving to Chicago or something like that
it can be especially if it's like
December but I think you'd be Supriya
let me tell you the cold is shocking
when you come from an island like Larry
goes snowboarding I'm like Alaska and
stuff like that cuz he loves all that
right but I grew up in st. Thomas and
I'm just like you know five days in the
cold I'm like this is so beautiful and
then I'm like I'm good you know but I
think you know listen Island people they
either like Jones for the big city or
the numb
tourist destination for Hawaiians you
know what it is what Vegas well cuz its
opposite right it's like it's like
everything's artificial and then you
have a lot of like Filipino Japanese
Chinese Hawaiians so like find gambling
things like that oh yeah it's a number
one like Hawaiian Airlines that's their
number one destination for locals they
go to Vegas Wow yeah I mean cuz it's the
antithesis right yeah I guess you see
the strip and all the neon the craziness
totally giant flashing this and that a
drop of water not anything natural like
you're not really supposed to be there
you know like there's no Garden of Eden
that makes sense
Oh totally either they they go like hey
I want to be a designer in live in New
York or you know that's got to be the
ultimate 180 culture shock they have
that though for sure yeah yeah for sure
they have that mm-hmm I think I I'm with
Laird though about living there whenever
I go there I'm like what in the fuck is
this I love it I Love New York for like
a week well you can get stuff done in
New York and to a real New Yorker
there's no other place like New York
right like I can get whatever food I
want exactly how I want it yeah there's
that and I can get stuff done and you
also breathe in break dust all day yeah
it's tough and I don't think we're
supposed to be living on stacked on top
of each other that's the thing and
there's always like yeah something goes
wrong this is the worst place you ever
want to be like garbage water toilets
he's like he's always thinking about
like if they turn the power off it's
gonna happen yeah me too yeah so that's
how he kind of how he lives I mean we
had a hundred year reign in Kauai and
April bows a large five feet in a day
yeah it was pretty radical so and then
then we went through the fires so it's
just like I think there's a fires and it
rains that much well knowing map then we
were here in Malibu and so we had that
like within six months after so I think
he's always and I think you know some
when people do things in nature like
rock climbers or
big wave surfers or whatever they're
more in tune with the fact that like
stuff does go wrong and so they're not
assuming that it's always going to be as
it always is so as you get hit with big
storms out there
we're qui like hurricanes yeah they
haven't had really a significant one
since Aniki which I believe was in 92
which was really bad I think it was the
Lark the fastest wind speed to hit land
however far away you guys as the crow
flies from like the Big Island he's got
it
do you see he's got a thing for the Big
Island what's happened to you on the Big
Island I love it there did you have like
an experience or no do you go no no just
there anything I like it there because
it's it's it's it's like a good medium
like yep I get it not quite as populated
as Maui it's not as metropolitan no but
it's still pretty big whereas lanai is
probably my favorite really yeah it's
just interesting it's so quiet and yeah
I hunt there for like a day oh there we
go and make sense it's also
overpopulated so it's like the most it's
like the best ethical argument for
hunting yeah I'm currently available in
the United States of America if you want
to call Hawaii the United States of
America
I know if you ask a Hawaiian like oh
you're American they're like you know
Hawaiian the other Hawaii
yeah they're home Hawaii is the most
North so it's the other end of the chain
so how far away would it be so if you're
gonna fly in an airplane it's an hour or
45 minutes because of takeoff and
landing if it was like straight like we
whip we go in a plane it's probably 28
minutes so how many miles is that cuz
you're going 500 miles an hour it's a
couple hundred miles yeah it is
Wow yeah no yeah yeah yeah no I mean
it's an amazing person you I'm informing
right now what ya rageous I like your
fascination with Hawaii yeah I love it
out there I really do yeah that's great
Steven Tahoe try to talk me into moving
to Maui mm-hmm yeah he loves it out
there really he loves it loves it yeah
he gets off though yeah I mean he flies
around does his Aerosmith's shows and
does that television show and all that
jazz but he loves Maui yeah you don't
love it too much I do love Maui I guess
I live there also when it was like a
little less populated so it's like
anything when you watch it you just kind
of go whoa what it's a it's a great
blend for me yeah
it has still nothing compared to this
like I was just that's right I mean it's
like this is that's right well we're
here is crazy at least what do we have
like 35 million people something
preposterous it even no really they just
guess what are you like the ninth
largest economy in the world yeah I told
on earth when we had this whole thing
with all them the Mexican you know the
Mexican you know whatever non illegal
whatever I said I have a friend of mine
who he's from here but he's from Mexico
and I said you should ban together you
have the ninth largest economy in the
world and get together and have demands
because you're helping run the ninth
largest economy in the world well that's
what's hilarious about people that want
the immigrants to go back to Mexico
listen stupid this thing would fall
apart that's a global ice oh he's crazy
about it is like they're already a part
of the system like why don't they get
the benefits I think he was laughing
because when I went to see him I go
how's it going to goes well hopefully
I'm here tomorrow joking you know and I
go you guys had like you're making it
happen yeah hard though to get people to
organize like that they're so worried
about being shipped out and now ice you
know I had a friend of mine who's a
veteran and he's an older gentleman he's
in his 50s he got pulled over at ice how
come on at the Home Depot they asked him
where he's born and he said hey asshole
you're not supposed to ask questions
like that like you don't have a warrant
to do and he started grilling the guys
and he pulled out his military ID he's
like what the fuck are you guys doing
here what do you think you're doing yeah
yeah I'm American I was born in America
yeah because I'm an American citizen I'm
also a veteran and then he started goes
like you guys this is illegal you're not
supposed to talk to people like this but
they can do that to people that don't
know and are scared right I mean yeah
but you if you're just an American
citizen at fucking Home Depot you're not
supposed to get harassed by some guy who
thinks you might be Mexican cuz you're
brown yeah some brown skin yeah it's
fucking crazy but it's just also like is
this really where our problems are what
about these using these resources in a
positive way wow there's a lot of shit
that needs to get done but that's ever I
mean that's every where think about how
much time gets spent on not doing
anything yeah and going the other
direction I don't
well there isn't that less of a problem
though when you have a small community
like Y that's got to be like a huge
alleviation of frustration this is just
the giant masses of people and the
stupid jobs everywhere it's like you
guys you guys kind of kind of boiled
down to a much more natural state well
it's all very accountable right like if
I say something to you I don't get to
walk away from that right you're on a
fucking little island I'm gonna see if
50 more times that day and so I gotta
own it if I you know and that that was
all Laird's biggest adjustment is cuz
everything he you know doesn't says he
is owns it and so he when he first came
here and like even driving if someone
flicked him off like you just don't do
that in Hawaii right I know your truck
like I know you I know your sister like
I'm gonna come into your house what are
you talking about yeah and I've been
with him where he has pulled people over
and said listen like you you can't go
and just like drop off aggressive
gestures you just don't know who like
what's up with people like you've got to
be accountable like this like you know
and I'm like okay but you cannot stop
every vehicle like jump out and be like
hey right right right
but that he or is he do that there no
he's done it here no you don't have to
do it there right there do it here it's
dangerous yeah I guess can be it can be
it's true it can be I don't know and
he's but again he's he's older and wiser
no I'm talking about like maybe morning
first they're together in his early
thirties crazy Laird but he still has a
look at his eye where it's like I don't
know yeah I get it
like well if you're really used to that
environment to where everybody is
accountable and then you see these just
assholes yeah beeping and also if you
really said okay let's go outside
de Becque I'm gonna get a lawyer right I
think for him that's the weird twisty
part it's like in Hawaii if they say it
it's like okay let's go
at least it's like okay I'm gonna stand
up to own the words I say and everything
here it's like if you go okay and they
go you know I'm gonna call somebody like
he's like okay well which is it you know
like I always tell my kid that my one
daughter does that she'll be like really
aggressive and then you call her on it
she gets like she's the victim I go no
no you have to pick
like which one are you are you like
aggressive or you the victim I don't
know I I think it's interesting he he
will call people out every time know if
they are acting weird he'll just say
like what's up or how's your date and
I'm like oh people are not accustomed to
right cuz in Hawaii they're just very
respectful that way and well there's
accountability and I think that's
important yeah there's also a lot of
fighters coming out of Hawaii well it's
a fighting a warrior culture so you know
like uncle slapped boys heads and like
and it's also now because of the
Brazilian influence coming in now you've
got you know jiu-jitsu and and also I
think about this they're pretty strong
right and and so contact they don't mind
a little contact like they even joke
about like Polynesian rugby players like
it's like all fun like oh haha you know
like we're leveling each other right so
you're also talking by people who maybe
they don't mind a little little contact
yeah you know like playful because they
are also playful mm-hmm so it's also
like this weird thing of like I'm not I
don't take myself so serious so there's
like a playfulness but also like oh
we're gonna do you notice a big
difference between like female athletes
and male athletes like okay cuz fighting
is a pretty I don't want to say
exaggerated but it's an interesting
thing where you know you have men and
women kind of differently but doing the
same thing if you will yeah um do you
notice a difference in their mentality
well they vary so much individually
that's what's interesting it's like
you'll find even male fighters or like
super laid back and then you find other
ones that are really intense it's super
emotional and it's really hard to tell
like there's a there's Gunnar Nelson
it's a guy from Iceland you know is I
know yeah fantastic jujitsu guy you
cannot get that guy to change his
expression it doesn't change you could
punch him kick him in the balls
he stays stoic it's a weird he's a weird
guy yeah he's very on one side of it and
then there's like guys like Conor
McGregor who's also his training partner
who's on a completely different side of
it he's screaming and yelling and
talking shit to everybody and you know
that's that's part of his flair
you know they vary so widely and it's
that's true with girls too some girls
are brash and outrageous and they get in
other girls faces and put their knuckles
on their nose and they're at the
staredown and other girls bow and they
hug and they take selfies together it's
like everyone has their own sort of
approach to it yeah it's very
interesting it is interesting I'm always
I'm I'm in fighting and intrigues me and
that I think it's interesting that
you're trying to be offensive and
defensive at the same time dealing with
fear like all these things happening
simultaneously and I then take it I look
at it one step further with a female
because I don't know I I'm interested to
know how if a female can fight from a
not not a non-emotional place but
without her emotion mm-hmm like just
like okay I'm in my male I mean my
athlete and I'm not gonna be like oh she
didn't just kick me in the ear you know
I'm like freaked out you know what I
mean you know like I've only been in one
fight my whole life and the girl hit me
in the face and when I saw my blood I
was like oh no she did not just hit me
in the face you know and then went crazy
but if these girls could be like because
they're so well trained as an athlete
how that can Otsuka seed like or
override actually like this in that
feminine impulse of like you know
reaction a reaction that's a masculine
impulse to though I think it's a human
impulse if a guy punches you in the face
you get furious it's so hard for people
to not get emotional when they get hit
yeah because you want to get it back
that's a good point it's a very bad way
to react in a fight to fight with
emotions because you expose yourself
right you leave yourself open for
counters you just you miss your rhythm
you're not as deceptive and your
emotions
you're too obvious in your pattern and
so many times you you get hit a lot more
it's a it's a big problem with fighters
that emotion is a very big problem and
the wanting to break people like letting
them hit you so you could show them that
they can't hurt you rescuing thing too
stupid it's very stupid take it on the
face on purpose
and then just like come on come on come
on hit that's what you have yeah then
that's a terrible emotion though you can
get completely knocked unconscious doing
that happens all the time it's just the
smart thing to do is to fight with
correct technique and with a correct
strategy meaning you have an
understanding of how to execute best
it's not to just wade in and let bombs
fly it's you have to you have to be very
precise in your tactics you gotta be
very smart I think it's interesting
though those sports where there is that
I mean listen versions of it is football
you know living with Laird obviously you
know he always says he appreciates
mother nature because it's like you make
good decisions you're rewarded you make
bad decisions you you pay a price but I
think it is very interesting when you
have two humans
strategically trying to deconstruct one
another hmm
the chess the physical chess that goes
on as like looking at it from another
athlete point of view I think it's a
unique person that wants to put
themselves in that situation yeah you
know it's like I understand almost like
you know a surfer and a wave and a rock
climber in a mountain I get that like
I'm gonna be a part of that but I find
it really interesting and even sort of
I'm even more curious about women like
who say like yeah this is gonna be my
sport they vary so wildly like there's
Holly Holm who's she just seems like
awfully sweet she's so she's like she'd
bring you cupcakes come out so murder
you just kick your fucking I mean listen
I saw that kick but then it's like I'm
so sorry I made you these after you know
cookies it's like okay I'll get it
you know when I get from the hospital I
don't know it's it is interesting when
you see girls like that yeah well
they're all different I always want to
know do they have brothers mmm like
where they rabble-rousing and that their
whole time and it wasn't and they
learned to play and it wasn't personal
you know and like a little contact was
okay maybe I mean in Ronda Rousey's case
it was also it was very much yeah her
mom was a world you to a champion
mom's a beast she's had an interesting
path I think yeah yeah I'm wonder how
much she loves at WWE I wonder I always
wonder when a person is like an elite
athlete at the highest level everyone a
real one
if they they still enjoy doing that
because I think she enjoyed it though I
think she was a fan of it before she
liked the theater of it yes I think she
actually enjoyed pro wrestling you know
and they are doing athletic things even
though it's scripted mm-hmm obviously
flying off of an into and around
I mean it's athletic but it's scripted
yes it's not competition but then again
you could only get knocked unconscious
so many times you can only get fucked up
so many times and she got fucked up two
fights in a row and really bad the Holly
Holm Kos is ruthless that was brutal and
then Amanda Nunez just punched her face
in for 48 seconds it was horrific yeah
that was hard to watch I don't like to
watch I mean I don't like to watch
really big guys punch each other and
women I don't know why I like when guys
are a little smaller it's easier to
watch as long as they're not kicking
themselves in the head I'm just saying
so the big scary ones like heavyweights
yeah you just go oh my god I just that
guy took eight years off that guy's you
know yeah it's definitely different you
do notice it like there's certain
heavyweights and they hit guys and they
get knocked unconscious whether it's
Francis and Ghana or steep a Miocic or
these big guys and they slam someone's
like oh my god
that's what I mean like I watch that I
don't actually I mean violence I know
it's sport but for me it's oh it's
violent it is yeah it's a it is a very
dangerous path that you have to know
when to get off and more I don't know if
I would say more so than other combat
sports but yeah it makes all of them
Oliver have a path but I think very
specifically MMA has you have to be
really careful because the consequences
are so great there's not enough padding
in those gloves or tiny little things
you could also get kicked you can get
need in the face elbowed in the face and
once you realize the chin starts going
and your reflexes start going and you're
slowing down like you got to get out and
you know you got to get out yeah and
sometimes they don't get the proper
advice you know and sometimes they don't
know what else to do they don't have
anywhere else to go and that goes back
to yeah I was talking I talked to Larry
about that because we have tons of
friends and organized sports so if like
you have to be drafted or coach the team
has to pick you up or you know whatever
and I say to him like how fortunate are
you that you're in a sport like other
athletes like a snowboarder or whatever
that you can go yeah you can go out yeah
you want a ride you can go right
nobody's dictating to you right and if
you're really smart you're managing
yourself and your health and your
well-being in your melon and everything
else you could write a really long time
yeah that's a big difference between
down in a competitive fighter 55 years
of age you match it
yeah getting hit over and over no chance
I mean you could still train in certain
aspects especially jiu-jitsu a lot of
people deep in their 60s 70s 80s trained
you can definitely do that but there's
such a such a difference you know Laird
can go out there and do what he wants to
do at the same level he was able to do
two decades ago I know it's it's
exhausting actually swear to God because
I feel like clared is like I in this way
of like when you live with somebody
that's sort of you know it's like I mean
you know you have a partner it's like in
ways they're a reference to you mm-hmm
in certain ways yeah and so I like
living with him and you're referencing
him as an athlete you're just like oh
man I gotta yeah I gotta get busy I
gotta get training I gotta get moving
well it's just like cuz he's he's
non-stop that guy cuz he has to that's a
different type right you know I a lot of
times I'll train cuz I'm like hey I know
how good I feel when I'm done and it's
important and I have other stuff I need
to do but I'm gonna get it in and for a
guy like that it's just like what it
would be like if I took an 80 pound
dumbbell and saw at the bottom of the
pool for a minute and then tried to do
15 you know it's just like he also has a
creative approach I'm more linear and
it's like for time and for this and he's
like let's just go until we can anymore
it's like okay when's that drill gonna
end
do you train with them only in the pool
I'm telling you you got to come with a
friend and someone that you feel safe
with and I'm gonna be honest with you we
have fighters and trainers have the
hardest time in the pool really yes
and I'll tell you why a lot of them are
built they have a lot of mass ok like
it's so number one right there just the
mass like you're more dense you go to
the bottom yeah ok
the other side of it is they're used to
doing everything quickly hmm and the
water is like awesome that you want to
do it quick this is how we're gonna do
it right and so it's a pretty cool
environment but we've had a lot of we've
had fighters and trainers and they're
built for but once you know obviously
once they get the hang of it but I think
it's it's pretty special the training
because you when you're done again it
goes back to I am like a noodle you're
exhausted and your joints are not just
hammered this is called xpt so yeah not
xpt it's like it's part of it online
that you can follow yeah I mean but the
pull training though it's like you have
to kind of do it with somebody someone
else to show you yeah I mean we started
originally it was like we'd wear weight
vests and lards like just go try as long
as you can and it's like ok I think I'm
I'm good now like I I cannot swim
anymore you know I can't tread it
anymore and then it was actually one of
my daughter she might have been like 6
or 7 at the time maybe younger and she
would swim to the surface with a
dumbbell and there's like oh what if we
made we had reps and you do sequencing
where you're on an exhale or on an
inhale or whatever he'll go from like a
you know I verse a climber or a bike and
have your heart rate way up and then go
okay now you're gonna do the set so it's
like there's all these ways to adapt and
it's pretty cool I think for people who
train that's the whole thing is how do
you keep modifying like do you get
locked in like on your training or do
you keep going okay I've heard you talk
about like oh I've added yoga and all
these things like that's the other thing
is like you get pretty good at something
but no how do you keep kind of adding
you know doing things that you're sort
of unsure you're uncomfortable you're
not good at I think that that's always
been easier for layer than me
I've always sort of gone like well no
I'm good over here like I do this good
it's like okay change it up you know so
I think that's been a I think that's the
thing so that's that has everything that
has we do a lot of breathing heat nice
because his other thing is like active
recovery mm-hmm people go I'm having day
off it's like okay so what are you gonna
do to actively recover not just take the
day off
so I think he's you know been really
into that but so active recovery meaning
you do somebody or something mellow so
that you can participate in helping the
body actually recover not just sit
around right how much fit is that and
like doing something physical as opposed
to just sitting around doing nothing I
think it's I think it makes a huge
difference because I don't think it's
about I have to tax my my adrenals or my
nervous system or any of that I think
it's okay I'm gonna take a very you know
a yin yoga class so the poses are long
it won't be like necessarily a high-flow
class or I'm gonna do multiple series of
heat nice like some days he'll go and
just do three rounds in the sauna and
three rounds on the ice or I'm gonna do
35 or 45 minutes of breathing you know
recovery breathing things like that to
really oxygenate the tissue in the cells
and things like that so I think it's
just kind of looking at what a day-off
looks like and making that something
that you participate in in in supporting
the recovery not just I laid around now
having said that there are days where
after you done with that yeah great lay
around like go to sleep early eat extra
more calories whatever you need to do
but I think active recovery even riding
a bike you know flushing the system to
issue things like that I think people
think you know off means like nothing
and I think doing something or for
certain athletes like maybe get a
massage that day that might be the best
thing you know so I think for him it's
feeling it out do you guys use any
electronics like in terms of apps or
heartrate monitors or anything along
those lines not too too much I used to
use a Fitbit Laird uses a box oximeter
oximeter oximeter to like if he does
breathing to see if he can get as
self up to altitude so he'll use that to
measure and things like that but I think
once you do something a really really
long time
you sort of go am I on the edge or rni
he'll use electronics more for speed and
distance he'll put it on his boards and
be like okay we went X miles and the
peak speed was whatever 50 miles an hour
so he'll use it more for that to measure
distance on how many miles he rode each
day on the water but not necessarily
micromanaging electronically all the
metrics now having said that if you were
an athlete where you know little seconds
here and there made a difference maybe
you would write or you know checking
your heart rate and things like that but
not not too often no yeah I would think
that like things like heart rate
variability finding out if you're
recovering correctly yeah not your your
heart rate varies in the morning day to
day but yeah that makes a big difference
between if you're if you're doing
something like Michael Phelps or someone
Katrin I think so our track athlete
where it's all these milliseconds I
think for layer it's like I feel good
today and I'm gonna go well there's a
lot more natural it's more natural thing
isn't it those days like you go wow I am
I'm tired today and I'll just kind of do
the best I can
yeah but I think I understand wanting to
measure things and also surf saying I
feel tired because there's an
interesting thing I'm feeling tired
physically but you're actually
emotionally tired because if you look at
your metrics on your physical you have a
lot more to give and so it's kind of
then checking in and saying well what's
going on
for me I'm usually more tired personally
than I am physically hmm my make sense
you know like especially with your 11
year old giving you shit
Rodie man she's awesome she's so but
that's what I'm saying like this I could
be wiped out right right I could train
for an hour and I could hang out with
birdie 13 minutes in the car and she's
the victor like you know her foots on my
hip and she's standing you know in the
pose and that has been my lesson that's
one of my many lessons ongoing lessons
is like you can't you can
go at everything head-on and I've
learned that certainly being in a
marriage I I developed a little bit of
finesse and and as a parent just kind of
going like I'm here to love you I'm here
to support you and I'm also gonna
recognize that you know you're probably
not going to always do it hardly ever
actually the way I I think you should or
I want you to help so what made you guys
start putting together the coffee and
the superfood supplements and all that
accident really what happened is is
Laird used to he's been in as far as
long as I've known him he's had coffee
come from all around he's have coffee
freak and then what happened is Paul
check
I don't know sixteen years ago gave him
ghee in his coffee and the two of those
animals would be like down in the coffee
well getting all jacked up on caffeine
and I'd be standing in the gym waiting
for them being like oh my god like
hanging out with these two you know for
the next two hours ramped up on on a
Faton and coffee which is basically the
Dave Asprey concept of like yak butter
tea and you know fat and things like
that so the bulletproof concept so Larry
used to start to mess around with
elements to add to the caffeine for the
performance and then we had a guy that
we work with I think for about three
years
he'd have we'd have guys come over and
they'd be like hey can you make me one
of those coffees and after a while
they'd start sending me emails like well
how much coconut and how much this and
how much that did he put in and our
friend Paul was like do you mind if I
try to put it together in a formula and
I was like yeah whatever and it wasn't
with the intention of having a business
and then before you know it it came out
and so then we have like original
creamer with unsweetened there's tumeric
there's hydrate products you know it's
all based on things that Laird really
eats and uses and you know mushroom
blends that I actually put that's how I
do my coffee in the mornings I put that
in and and do that so you know that's
another good example of like if you're
doing something because you really
believe in it and really and that
business has we're really fortunate it's
we have a factory in Sisters Oregon and
they built another one
oh wow yeah no it's we have know like
they do everything like no co-packing
partners we do it and now we're looking
into farming ingredients and doing a
drying factory so we can do that and put
that into the product and things like
that so I don't know I think it started
from a genuine passion and and and came
into that and you know I always say to
like I started I was playing volleyball
at 18 you know in college at 17 and then
I started working and was sort of doing
other jobs by 18 or 19
but Laird his path has been really
different and really he didn't get in
surfing people like they knew maybe knew
who Laird was you sort of always on the
outside but then it's it's really he was
like 35 years old when someone from the
outside went oh that's kind of cool so
35 would be considered old I think
they're an athlete yeah and I think it's
somebody who thought I have something
inside me telling me to go forward and I
think that I feel that same way like
people have said to me like well why did
you do this or that I go because I could
feel it inside it's like you know that
from what you do because you've done a
lot of different things and and just
kind of not only trying to develop that
but try to trust it and say even though
I've I've you know it I don't see it all
clearly right now I feel it and I'm
gonna just keep following that feeling
and and it doesn't always lead to some
grand destination but maybe that those
lessons and that place lead you to the
next which could be you know a place
that you know brings you other things so
yeah these businesses are just a natural
byproduct of our lifestyle but it's
pretty great it's pretty awesome
got great stuff I do start drinking
coffee toast 45 really yeah cuz I
layered to be like because I think he
was like try this one and try that and
try this I like to caffeine I just
wasn't into coffee how would you take it
like your Bamonte eighties and stuff I
get all jacked up on that stuff that
stuff you ever drink that yeah yeah good
stuff better go straight to whatever
you're doing you're Montaigne I'm like
Tommy could you get your stuff we're in
the car you have your bags and there's
like did you know your Bramante you know
like
crazy person with it so and now I've
switched the caffeine with the fats but
I I like it and I like the business
aspect of it quite frankly like for me
that's interesting too well you guys
want the bed cool stuff well thank you
energy more you're great on podcasts do
you do podcast I had a podcast with Neil
Strauss
did you stop doing it yeah Neil's a busy
guy and we had a your own we did it in
the sauna
we called the truth barrel that's what
it was called we were literally in the
sauna in our bathing suits because our
group when we get together we were we
would sit in the sauna and you know this
if you have friends over you go hey you
know what I'm having love problems okay
we got eight minutes because 200 like
let's get into it you're half naked so
you're sort of there you are right and
so i got an invitation to do a podcast
and so I thought Neil and I are so very
very different like really different and
I thought it'd be more interesting to
have us with our points of view because
then you also realize that as different
as we are is we're really looking for
the same things we're trying to figure
out love we're trying to be parents
we're trying to work take care of
ourselves age whatever all the stuff
you're navigating and so we did that for
like a year and a half it was a lot of
fun and people were like in there in
their bathing suits wedding at my house
in the sauna in the truth barrel because
that's what we always called it you
can't lie in the sauna but they're only
like 10 minutes long no we would we
would open the door oh but it was like I
try to turn it way down cuz Laird has
our sauna - 220 220 go in there didn't
cook - no it's exactly right but if you
couple it with the ice you're sort of
grateful for the 220 so I would turn it
I try to turn it down to like 120 and
inevitably the next day when it was our
real life's awning lards like who's been
messing with the dial of my sauna you
know it's like this whole thing and I'm
like well we were shooting we can't sit
in there for an hour
you see people they're like can I go out
and they jump in the pool and then come
back in this is really fun I liked it
because there's something like you just
get right to it right well why don't you
just do it on your own you know what Joe
I listen to your podcast a lot and I
think to myself very few people can do
what you do I think it's really
important to not only like recognize
someone does something really well
because everyone thinks all I could do
that it's like well no you can actually
and so for me I'm very curious about
people and you know I used to do a lot
of TV where I'd interview athletes like
that was more interesting to me than
being interviewed because that's how
you've learned like you go okay how do
you do it I know how I do it I don't
need to know that I need to know what
you're doing and um I just think it's it
does interest me but I would want to do
it right and not just assume like you
can do it because to do it really well
is it's a special talent I just had a
lot of practice go back and listen to
the early ones they sucked just you just
get better at me ya know and I get that
too but I think it's just knowing I
think this is important in all things in
life because we like something not not
maybe for me because I do really like
this is just because we like something
doesn't mean we have to do that too
right like I think it's still like
drilling down on you know what do you
want to do like because when I hear you
go from a comedian to like a scientist a
physicist to you know it's like it shows
your genuine passions in all these areas
and that's what's interesting I mean I
always want to talk about like how do
you get it done I'm so interested in how
people if they can arrive at any place
where there's a sense of like joy moving
in and out of their life and self-care
mmm and because I think when people talk
about health and fitness or wellness I
think they're off the mark about what it
really is I think for me what I've
learned is like I train and eat well
just so I have a fighting chance to
support any kind of happiness and it
isn't just about like I'm ripped you
know not me but like this notion of what
people are putting out there that
Fitness is it's like that's all great
but if you still haven't figured out
some of these other things as a person
it's like I don't know it seems like
you're wrestling the wrong things so I'm
always really interested in and also not
only how they get it done but also not
making it seem like it's so easy you
like my people I always joke like when
people do interviews and they go how are
your children they're amazing and I'm
like my kids are amazing too and they
you know crush our balls on daily basis
and isn't that everybody's house you
know or people you know say to me I mean
do you and learn ever fight I mean we
have and we haven't always had perfect
you know like there's been time so it
was like maybe we're not gonna stay
together and I guess for me that would
be really interesting is to communicate
in a way that's like it's not gratuitous
but at least like hey you're being kind
of honest about like what it is yeah you
know and and and now like I'm almost 50
it's like even aging like having or
having a realistic but good conversation
about like hey how's that going you know
not like I feel great I do feel great I
do I feel great I'm sure you do but
there are days where you know you go oh
time of real human times moving yeah I
said sometimes I said that to laird cuz
you know you don't want to be that wife
do I look all T oh it's like he doesn't
notice you know what I mean and I said I
said today I it was funny I had a thing
like I realized like times moving and he
goes mm-hmm because he knows what that
means
and I'm sparing him that whole
conversation like a girlfriend
conversation that's like not one that
you have with your partner I think it's
important to like you know go down the
hole with him on other things right
I do observe that sometimes I look
outside I go yeah this is not a
conversation you want to have with Laird
save that for you know your your
girlfriend you have so much to say I
think it's like a natural progression
for you to do it another podcast for do
to do your own I don't know so much I
think I'm so boring boring no I swear to
God I feel like you know it's probably
cuz you think about yourself so much
you're probably annoyed that you're
thinking about yourself you wanna fix
this and change that and adapt here and
evolve there you know if you're really
paying attention why it was even a
decent athlete is this like I was just
trying to I was just trying to get it
yeah and and I know as a human we can
never
get it right and that's a moving target
but I feel like the pursuit of trying to
be one's best self in the ISM is
probably worth spending some time on you
you appreciate your existence more I
think when you are on that path I think
so and I think I think especially when
you've had the opportunity also to do a
lot of really cool stuff I almost think
it becomes a responsibility because
you're not fighting certain fights right
like certain battles you don't even like
I don't have to I have three jobs but I
chose three jobs it's not like you're
just make trying to survive like those
people it's like hey I get it
but I feel like if you go like hey I got
to do that and this and this it's like
yeah cool what are you doing like what
what else are you gonna do you know I
think that that becomes a worthy task
and also like I'm trying to stay in my
I'm trying to stay married I'm trying to
be a decent mom things like that and so
that takes probably some work well it
does but I really think that there's
value in expressing that and that you
know yes I do yeah
I'm sure a lot of people are agreeing
right now like yeah do a podcast you
know what it is this is what I might
ultimately be is that somehow and this
is I think why I love your your show
because I hear it over and over and you
don't say it per se of saying it but
it's there always in an underlying way
it's like power and love always like be
your most badass self all the time that
you can have fun kick ass and maybe be
kind yeah like for me those are the
ultimate because every all the people
that I see there I'm like oh they could
kick your ass and love you you know I
think that's really powerful I mean I
respond to that because it you know it
feels important right now I think you're
absolutely right I think this is a good
way to end this okay let's do it
Mahalo so thank you Thank You kini I
really appreciate it
enjoyed it thank you um tell people your
Instagram your your social media I'm
Gabby Reece if they want to check out
the pool training xpt and just get
people to take care of themselves
Mahalo bye everybody
[Music]
[Applause]